The Last Christmas of Mrs. Claus 
by Alex Wilson 
Betty was thirty-eight and still believed in Santa Claus. 
But sometimes he could be such an asshole. 
She leaned against the kitchen counter, picking dried glaze from the wrinkles in the back of her hand. 
From the wireless headset that dangled from her neck, her old marine buddies called to her with joyous profanity and the bass of digital gunfire. 
The Xbox was upstairs. 
Her buddies were in San Diego and Cleveland. 
Satellite coverage in Santa’s Village was just another Christmas miracle, like faster-than-light travel and stuffing oneself through gas fireplaces with neither explosions nor lawsuits nipping at your heels. 
It was six o’clock. 
Santa had said he needed to leave at eight. 
So Betty had made Christmas Eve dinner while listening to — instead of participating in — the big special ops campaign game online. 
She’d garlic-salted the yams to the tune of Gomez unloading his Glock into a drug dealer. 
She’d painted the ham with maple glaze while Williams punctuated Patty Smyth’s “Goodbye to You” with bursts from his assault rifle. 
“Her boys,” as she called them, didn’t take a lot of eggnog in their rum. 
Santa had spent his day opening envelopes from North American children and falling asleep watching the Pittsburgh-Cleveland game in the media room. 
Now he was in the kitchen, awake and on his way out the door, because suddenly spending fifteen minutes eating dinner with his wife had become too much of a burden on this most wonderful night of the year. 
His white V-neck undershirt was tucked into his pants in front, pulled taught over his belly. 
It stretched the neckhole halfway down to his happy trail. 
His hands were finding their way through the armholes of his robe. 
“It’s just that there are more children in the world now,” he said. 
“And Santa’s not getting any younger, ho ho ho.” 
“Don’t get much older either,” Betty said. 
Santa’s first wife had died centuries ago, but he always just dismissed the question of his own mortality. 
Betty never knew how naughty she should feel about wanting to strangle him sometimes. 
“You’re seriously going to let me eat alone again on Christmas Eve?” 
“Don’t think of it like that, doll,” Santa said. 
“Think of the children.” 
He slung his belt around his back, and gave it a quick tug. 
His waist shrunk from dangerously obese to barely jolly. 
A few crumpled bills in American currency fell out of his pocket. 
Santa bent down to pick them up, mumbling about “emergency money.” 
“Can’t you get dressed in the bedroom like a normal person?” Betty asked. 
Distorted shouting erupted from Betty’s headset. 
She imagined red and yellow mosaic bursts lighting up the sunless snowscape outside, as if there was an HDTV behind the blinds instead of their kitchen window. 
One of her boys probably stepped on a landmine. 
Williams, she guessed. 
She thought she could hear Gomez laughing. 
She picked up the pans in which she’d made the potatoes and maple glaze. 
She put them in the sink to soak. 
The gingerbread batter bowl could wait a day, even though it would take longer to clean tomorrow. 
For now, she appreciated its fight to cover the ham-stink that coated the room. 
The jingle bell chimed on Santa’s cell. 
“Nutcrackers,” he said. 
“Santa can’t reach it, and it’s probably Ginny. 
Would you be a doll?” 
“Your secretary’s calling, and you need me to answer it? 
How efficient.” 
Betty wiped her fingers on a hand-towel. 
She lifted her headset’s microphone to her mouth. 
“Moroz out. 
Back in five.” 
“Copy that,” Gomez said on the other end. 
“It’ll take that long to put Humpty back together again anyway.” 
Betty switched off her headset mic. 
She unclipped the cell phone from the back of Santa’s girdle, and pushed the button with the green arrow, serrated to look like a double-edged diving knife. 
Or a Christmas tree, if that was more your thing. 
“Hey Ginny,” Betty said into the phone. 
“Oh hello, Mrs. Claus,” Ginny said. 
“Merry Christmas.” 
“For heaven’s sake, call me Betty.” 
“Sorry, Mrs. Claus. 
Has Mr. Claus left yet?” 
“On his way,” Betty said. 
“He was just thinking of the children. 
One at a time. 
He’s very thorough.” 
“How wonderful!” 
When Tyler was very young, his grandmother was his favorite person in the world because, unlike his parents, who believed that children should always be told the truth as adults understood it, she would fill in the gaps in his knowledge — Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny, God. 
His parents were always too busy and often a little too serious, but his grandmother had a sense of peace about her, a lightness that lifted his spirit. 
A few times, when Tyler’s parents were away, she took him with her to church. 
He remembered liking the singing and the colorful windows, and how safe he felt there, in that large, empty space, sitting on a hard bench next to her warmth. 
When she died, grief overwhelmed Tyler. 
But like most adults, when he grew older he could only recall the intensity of that love in childhood in an abstract way. 
He made the common error of identifying maturity with worth, and assumed that the love he had for her as a young child must have been lacking in strength and depth. 
For many years after her death, however, Tyler was tortured by the memory of a certain visit from her. 
He was five or so, and they were playing some board game at the kitchen table. 
As he swung his legs in his excitement, he kicked her repeatedly in the shins. 
She asked him to stop, and he refused, giggling. 
When she finally frowned at him and threatened to stop playing if he didn’t stop he told her to go to Hell. 
In Tyler’s mind he could see her face grow taut, lose color, and then, for the only time he could remember, she began to cry. 
He also remembered his own utter confusion. 
His parents did not have much use for religion and so for him Hell was a word without much mystery or power. 
At that time he knew only vaguely that Hell was a place you did not want to go, like the dark basement or the even darker attic. 
He remembered feeling resentful that she was crying and he did not even understand why. 
Tyler felt the guilt of this memory even in his teenage years. 
For him it summed up all his insecurities and fears about his own cruelty, ignorance, and the possibility that he was, in reality, not a good person. 
The fact that he had caused someone who loved him such pain with so little effort and understanding troubled him deeply. 
One day Tyler looked through an old family photo album, and in it was a picture of the kitchen in the house they used to live in. 
He was surprised to discover that the small kitchen contained a central island, and had no space for the table in his memory at all. 
With the discovery of that single error in his memory came a cascade of other revelations. 
Now he remembered that they always ate in the dining room, and when they did play board games, it was always on the coffee table in the living room. 
The memory that had caused him such pain over the years could not possibly have occurred. 
Somehow, he must have manufactured the whole scene in his imagination. 
It was not very hard to explain what really happened, he thought. 
The death of his grandmother had probably caused in him feelings of abandonment and guilt. 
In his confusion he had taken elements from storybooks and imagined out of nothing this memory to punish himself. 
This was the sort of fantasy that could have occurred to any young child who lost an important relative. 
With that realization, the image of his grandmother crying faded in his memory and became less and less believable. 
Tyler thought he was very lucky to have discovered the single error in his false memory, which enabled him to reason his way into distinguishing between reality and fantasy. 
He felt that it was a coming-of-age moment. 
Nonetheless, he admitted to himself that he was a little sad also at the discovery. 
For however imaginary that memory was, it was also a part of his love for his grandmother. 
When that memory lost its compelling aura of truth, it was like another part of her died with it. 
He had no name for the emptiness that remained. 
Everyone’s just watching the weird retarded girl except this one chubby guy who’s trying to get her to put down the lights but who’s afraid to touch her. 
“Not supposed to touch those,” he says. 
“Where’s your mom? 
Is your mom here?” 
“Sorry!” I say. 
The chubby guy frowns at me. 
“Cara,” I say. 
“No hands.” 
Cara looks at me, looks at the lights. 
I gently try to take them. 
“No!” she wails. 
“Pretty!” 
“I’m sorry,” I say, “I’m her brother. 
She’s developmentally delayed. 
Cara! 
Cara, no. 
No hands.” 
She wails, but lets me disentangle her hands. 
“I’m sorry,” I say again, the concerned big brother. 
“I was just looking around and thought she was right with me, you know? 
Our mom’s down at Dillard’s.” 
Chubby guy kind of hovers until I get the lights away from Cara and as soon as I put them on the shelf he grabs them and starts straightening them out and draping them back over the display. 
I herd Cara towards the front of the store, mouthing sorry at the front cashier. 
She’s kind of pretty. 
She smiles at me. 
Nice big brother with retarded sister. 
Back out in the mall, Cara is wailing, which could start an asthma attack, so to distract her I say, “You want a cookie?” 
Mom has Cara on a diet, so of course she wants a cookie. 
She perks up the way Shelby, our Shetland Sheepdog does, when you say ‘treat.’ 
I take her to the food court and buy her an M&M cookie and buy myself a Mountain Dew and then while she’s eating her cookie, I pull the deck of cards out of my pocket and unwrap it. 
We’ve got another fifteen minutes before we have to meet my mom. 
The idea is to play fish except every time you get a match you’re supposed to do what it says. 
Tie partner’s hands with a silk scarf. 
Kiss anywhere you like and see how long your partner can keep from moving or making any noise. 
The one who lasts the longest gets to draw an extra card. 
Tame, but pretty cool. 
I can’t wait to show Toph and Len. 
Cara has chocolate smeared on her mouth, but she lets me wipe her face off. 
“You ready to go back to see Mom?” I say. 
When we pass Spencer’s again, she stops. 
“Uhhh,” she says, pointing to the store. 
Mom always tries to get her to say what she wants, but I know what she wants and I don’t want to fight with her. 
“No,” I say. 
“Let’s go see Mom.” 
Cara’s face crumples up and she hunches her thick shoulders. 
“Uhhh,” she says, mad. 
“It’s okay,” I say. 
“Come on.” 
She swings at me. 
I grab her hand and pull her behind me. 
She tries to sit down, but I just keep on tugging and she follows me, gulping and wailing. 
“What did you do?” my mom says when she sees us. 
My mom had to buy stuff, like gym shorts for me and underwear for herself, so I told her that I’d take Cara with me while she bought her stuff. 
She’s holding a Dillard’s bag. 
“She wanted to go in Spencer’s,” I say. 
“We went in but she kept grabbing stuff and I had to take her out and now she’s upset.” 
“Robert,” my mom says, irritated. 
She crouches down. 
“Ah, Cara mia, don’t cry.” 
We trail out of the store, Cara holding Mom’s hand and sniffling. 
By the time we get to the car, though, Cara’s wheezing. 
Mom digs out Cara’s inhaler and Cara dutifully takes a hit. 
I tried it once and it was pretty dreadful. 
It felt really weird, trying to get that stuff in my lungs, and it made me feel a little buzzy but it didn’t even feel good, so it’s pretty amazing that Cara will do it. 
Cara sits in her booster seat in the back of the car, wheezing all the way home, getting worse and worse, and by the time we pull in the driveway, she’s got that white look around her mouth. 
“Robert,” Mom says, 
“I’m going to have to take her to the Emergency Room.” 
“Okay,” I say and get out of the car. 
“You want to call your dad?” Mom asks. 
“I don’t know how long we’ll be.” 
Mom checks her watch. 
It’s three something now. 
“We may not be home in time for dinner.” 
I don’t want to call my dad who is probably with Joyce, his girlfriend, anyway. 
Joyce is always trying to be likable and it gets on my nerves after awhile — she tries way too hard. 
“I can just make a sandwich,” I say. 
“I want you to stay at home, then,” she says. 
“I’ve got my cell phone if you need to call.” 
“Can Toph and Len come over?” I ask. 
She sighs. 
“Okay. 
But no roughhousing. 
Remember you have school tomorrow.” 
She opens the garage door so I can get in. 
I stand there and watch her back down the driveway. 
She turns back, watching where she’s going, and she needs to get her hair done again because I can really see the gray roots. 
Cara is watching me through the watery glass, her mouth a little open. 
I wave good-bye. 
I’m glad they’re gone. 
The day it rained in the garden 
The first drops of rain fell onto the parched stones from a cloudless blue sky. 
They disappeared immediately, drunk down into the mineral silence. 
The garden paused, and everything held its breath and waited. 
More rain would come. 
Everyone knew, beyond belief or necessity that the time had come. 
And with it, the rain. 
Heavy oily drops bounced from leaf to grass to dusty ground, gathering in stems and folds on the way. 
Yet still the sky was a hard polished blue with not a cloud in sight. 
Still the garden held its breath. 
It would not be long now. 
A spattering of drops plucked memories from deep in the roots, shivering through shoots and tendrils, humus and stone. 
Wispy vapour trails marbled the blue surface above. 
And then it rained for good. 
We sat on the porch watching, no longer daring to dart out and leap around in the downfall as drops turned to torrents and the staccato tapping on the roof climaxed to a thunderous roar. 
Pools erupted and overflowed along the edges of the lawn, cascading around the raspberry canes and over the flower beds. 
Earthworms rose up from the water-laden earth where they could no longer breath and wriggled and struggled fro air on the surface, writhing and swimming for a safe haven. 
Water burst over the barrels and cans standing under the eaves and gutters, flooding the pathways, carrying away all that wasn’t fixed solid and licking at the stairs to the back porch before climbing each step and lapping against the planks we were sitting on, a wooden raft surrounded by angry water and martial beat drum, drum, drumming on the roof above. 
We slipped out feet over the sides and when we felt the fish, some as big as logs, some as small as leaves, nibble at our feet, we leant over to watch them fraying and frolicking under the choppy surface. 
Waves lapped at the porch, washing away the boxes, and bowls, and the dog’s basket. 
The rocking chair, the watering can, boxes of cuttings, and tied-up newspapers, all floated away as we slammed the kitchen door shut and retreated to the front room we gazed out at the river that the street had become. 
The sky was pewter smeared with charcoal now, and pressed down hard on the rooftops, slowly dissolving everything below. 
When the water rippled into the hallway, we splashed our way to the staircase and then up as it nipped at our heels. 
Outside the other houses were rocks surrounded by sea with mermaids swimming all around, flapping their scaly tails and hauling themselves up, to fall backwards into the crest of the oncoming waves. 
And as they swam they sang, their voices born on the winds and the salt and the rain, and we could hear them singing, He is coming, He is coming. 
And they combed their long hair in preparation. 
We waved and called, and they laughed and played, tantalising, their seaweed locks just out of reach. 
With a flick of the tail they were off, still singing, He is coming, He is coming, until their voices were lost in the noise of the rain and the water. 
A great whiskered head arose, then a belly, wet and sleek, long enough to wrap itself twice around the world. 
“Is it him?” we asked each other, nudging elbows and climbing onto the chairs. 
We pulled off wet socks and shoes, letting them float away on the tide, before the great worm turned and the wake engulfed the creaking, cracking house. 
We clambered up onto the roof, sliding on the tiles and clinging to chimney stacks, sheltering our eyes from the driving downpour. 
The sky was black, and the stormy sea all the deepest, darkest blues and greens and greys and flecked with white where the sea-horses galloped. 
The waters broke making way for the gnarled head of a whale, spouting water high against the clouds before opening its whiskered maw and in a looming, booming voice called: He is coming, He is coming. 
The chimneys washed away, so we scrambled onto the blue-black back encrusted with barnacles and cockles like stars in a night sky and held on tight as he rode the waves, dipping and blowing, dipping and blowing. 
The wind and the rain tugged at our hair. 
And still it rained. 
We heard a fearsome creaking and cracking and before our eyes a great patch of sky peeled away, deeping down in the troughs and riding the crests with torn sails set against the wind. 
It was a galleon with masts like a dead man’s fingers, tarred timbers groaning and a mermaid sat on the bow as he ship dipped and passed. 
He is coming, He is coming, she sang out. 
And just as the wash hit us, prising us from the whale’s speckled back and down into the sea, someone threw down a knotted rope and we hung on for dear life. 
The singing sailors hauled us aboard chanting, He’s a coming-ha! He’s a coming-ha! 
And we fell onto the deck like fish bursting from a net. 
The Captain stood above us dressed in jewels and finery from a thousand pillagings. 
The Valley of Giants 
I had buried my parents in their gray marble mausoleum at the heart of the city. 
I had buried my husband in a lead box sunk into the mud of the bottom of the river, where all the riverboatmen lie. 
And after the war, I had buried my children, all four, in white linen shrouds in the new graveyards plowed into what used to be our farmland: all the land stretching from the river delta to the hills. 
I had one granddaughter who survived the war. 
I saw her sometimes: in a bright pink dress, a sparkling drink in her hand, on the arm of some foreign officer with brocade on his shoulders, at the edge of a marble patio. 
She never looked back at me — poverty and failure and political disrepute being all, these days, contagious and synonymous. 
The young were mostly dead, and the old men had been taken away, they told us, to learn important new things and to come back when they were ready to contribute fully. 
So it was a city of grandmothers. 
And it was in a grandmother bar by the waterfront — sipping hot tea with rum and watching over the shoulders of dockworkers playing mah-jongg — that I first heard of the valley of giants. 
We all laughed at the idea, except for a chemist with a crooked nose and rouge caked in the creases of her face, who was incensed. 
“We live in the modern era!” she cried. 
“You should be ashamed of yourself!" 
The traveler stood up from the table. 
She was bony and rough-skinned and bent like an old crow, with a blue silk scarf and hanks of hair as black as soot. 
Her eyes were veined with red. 
“Nonetheless,” the traveler said, and she walked out. 
They were laughing at the chemist as well as at the traveler. 
To find anyone still proud, anyone who believed in giants or shame, was hilarious. 
The air of the bar was acrid with triumph. 
Finding someone even more vulnerable and foolish than we were, after everything had been taken from us — that was a delight. 
But I followed the traveler, into the wet streets. 
The smell of fish oozed from the docks. 
Here and there were bits of charred debris in the gutters. 
I caught her at her door. 
She invited me in for tea and massage. 
Her limbs were weathered and ringed, like the branches of trees in the dry country. 
She smelled like honey that has been kept a while in a dark room, a little fermented. 
A heady smell. 
In the morning, brilliant sunlight scoured the walls and the floor, and the traveler and her pack were gone. 
I hurried home. 
My house had survived the war with all its brown clay walls intact, though the garden and the courtyard were a heap of blackened rubble. 
My house was empty and cold. 
I packed six loaves of flatbread, some olives, a hard cheese, one nice dress, walking clothes, my pills and glasses, a jug of wine, a can-teen of water, and a kitchen knife. 
I sat in the shadow in my living room for a while, looking at the amorphous mass of the blanket I had been crocheting. 
That granddaughter: her parents both worked in the vineyards, and when she was a child, she would play in my courtyard in the after-noons. 
When she scraped her knees bloody on the stones, she refused to cry. 
She would cry from frustration when the older children could do something that she couldn't — like tie knots, or catch a chicken. 
— Prologue — 
It had taken only a matter of hours for the Kethlan system to become a tumbling sea of debris; the twisted and burnt-out remnants of a once glorious Imperial nation. 
An empire whose costly mistakes would for many years to come echo into every corner of the known galaxy. 
And with those mistakes would come death to billions of innocent, unsuspecting lives. 
A starfighter hurtled through the scattered metal, the pilot desperate to find a way to stop himself from joining the ever growing population of this interstellar graveyard. 
Jacques Chalmers was not alone in his frustration with the current situation, but he was doubtless one of the most panicked. 
He tried to steady himself as he began cycling once again through the available display options for his starfighter's radar system. 
His anxiety continued to grow with each passing second, every change of the screen doing nothing to abate it. 
He stopped midway through the calibration and glanced out of his cockpit. 
The scene was the same as it had been a few moments ago and it brought him no comfort. 
He couldn't count the number of capital ships that dominated the Enemy's frontline. 
Twenty? 
Thirty? 
Fifty? 
In his years of service to the Imperial Naval Forces he had never seen anything like it, not even in archive war footage. 
The enormous forms of the battleships loomed like giants atop a hill, staring down upon a tiny village below. 
Then there were the Enemy starfighters themselves: hundreds at least, swarming about like a huge wall of locusts. 
Knowing that he had already been flying straight for longer than was advisable, Chalmers altered his course to attempt to throw off any pursuers. 
* * * 
Not long before he had been standing on the flight deck of his deployment carrier, amongst the other pilots, his heart pumping in his ears, his hands sweating as he awaited the order to board his fighter. 
Chalmers saw his friends run forward as their names were called out, scrambling into cockpits, pulling on helmets and performing last-minute safety checks. 
Though most hid it well, he was convinced they were all as nervous and scared as he was - knowing they could well be speeding only to their own deaths. 
As he watched his friends' fighters hurtle down the catapult, his commanding officer had addressed the last remaining pilots still standing on the flight deck. 
“Right, listen up,” he started. 
“This is where we must make our stand. 
The Enemy cannot be allowed to advance any further. 
Tonight we fight the battle for Kethlan and for the Imperium; the battle for our survival. 
Hundreds of millions of lives are depending on our actions here. 
Make them proud!” 
Hundreds of millions? thought Chalmers. 
Is that all that's left? 
A few months ago it was billions. 
This day had crept ever closer as cities, planets and then entire star systems had fallen to the Enemy; to those damned Pandorans; to the Senate's mistake. 
How many of his friends had he lost over these last few terrible months? 
Had they died fast or were they now suffering a fate far worse..? 
As his CO continued to pump them up for the critical battle, Chalmers' head was filled with visions of row upon row of black-clad soldiers. 
A white emblem resided on their right arms and left breast, an all-encompassing full black helmet upon their heads, its smooth form negating all facial features. 
Two bright red oval spheres were set into an eye-level groove that ran all around, the “eyes” themselves slanted into a menacing and intimidating scowl. 
One of the soldiers turned to face him, the ruby-like eyes seeming to pierce his very soul. 
He felt his hand tighten on the flight helmet he held, swallowing hard. 
“Daniels! Peterson! Foster! Brown! Rye ...” a voice called out above the other sounds that filled the flight deck. 
Feet moved and Chalmers felt his stomach lurch. 
His name would be called soon. 
He felt a sense of doom. 
If the Empire could not stop the Enemy before, what hope did they have now? 
The Enemy's power had grown exponentially and they had crushed everything in their path with harrowing little effort. 
Chalmers was feeling forced to accept the truth: they were all that was left of the Imperial Naval Forces. 
This was a battle that could not be won; not now, not ever. 
“... Tyler! Flynn! Chalmers! King! Golden! Blair ...” 
At the sound of his name, Chalmers felt himself move robotically, his mind screaming in protest against what his legs were doing. 
He ran over to the waiting starfighter, threw on his helmet and begun ascending the ladder into the cockpit. 
Zombie-like he sank down into the seat, watching as if from outside his body as his hands buckled him in, his fingers flip switches, press buttons, acknowledge questions and confirmations on the screens before him. 
Moments later, his craft was taxied to the catapult and before long he'd found himself out in space and into the thick of battle. 
At that moment, his worst fears had not only been altogether realised, but far exceeded. 
What the Moon Brings 
I hate the moon - I am afraid of it - for when it shines on certain scenes familiar and loved it sometimes makes them unfamiliar and hideous. 
It was in the spectral summer when the moon shone down on the old garden where I wandered; the spectral summer of narcotic flowers and humid seas of foliage that bring wild and many-coloured dreams. 
And as I walked by the shallow crystal stream I saw unwonted ripples tipped with yellow light, as if those placid waters were drawn on in resistless currents to strange oceans that are not in the world. 
Silent and sparkling, bright and baleful, those moon-cursed waters hurried I knew not whither; whilst from the embowered banks white lotos-blossoms fluttered one by one in the opiate night-wind and dropped despairingly into the stream, swirling away horribly under the arched, carven bridge, and staring back with the sinister resignation of calm, dead faces. 
And as I ran along the shore, crushing sleeping flowers with heedless feet and maddened ever by the fear of unknown things and the lure of the dead faces, I saw that the garden had no end under that moon; for where by day the walls were, there stretched now only new vistas of trees and paths, flowers and shrubs, stone idols and pagodas, and bendings of the yellow-litten stream past grassy banks and under grotesque bridges of marble. 
And the lips of the dead lotos-faces whispered sadly, and bade me follow, nor did I cease my steps till the stream became a river, and joined amidst marshes of swaying reeds and beaches of gleaming sand the shore of a vast and nameless sea. 
Upon that sea the hateful moon shone, and over its unvocal waves weird perfumes breeded. 
And as I saw therein the lotos-faces vanish, I longed for nets that I might capture them and learn from them the secrets which the moon had brought upon the night. 
But when that moon went over to the west and the still tide ebbed from the sullen shore, I saw in that light old spires that the waves almost uncovered, and white columns gay with festoons of green seaweed. 
And knowing that to this sunken place all the dead had come, I trembled and did not wish again to speak with the lotos-faces. 
Yet when I saw afar out in the sea a black condor descend from the sky to seek rest on a vast reef, I would fain have questioned him, and asked him of those whom I had known when they were alive. 
This I would have asked him had he not been so far away, but he was very far, and could not be seen at all when he drew nigh that gigantic reef. 
So I watched the tide go out under that sinking moon, and saw gleaming the spires, the towers, and the roofs of that dead, dripping city. 
And as I watched, my nostrils tried to close against the perfume-conquering stench of the world's dead; for truly, in this unplaced and forgotten spot had all the flesh of the churchyards gathered for puffy sea-worms to gnaw and glut upon. 
Over these horrors the evil moon now hung very low, but the puffy worms of the sea need no moon to feed by. 
And as I watched the ripples that told of the writhing of worms beneath, I felt a new chill from afar out whither the condor had flown, as if my flesh had caught a horror before my eyes had seen it. 
Nor had my flesh trembled without cause, for when I raised my eyes I saw that the waters had ebbed very low, shewing much of the vast reef whose rim I had seen before. 
And when I saw that the reef was but the black basalt crown of a shocking eikon whose monstrous forehead now shown in the dim moonlight and whose vile hooves must paw the hellish ooze miles below, I shrieked and shrieked lest the hidden face rise above the waters, and lest the hidden eyes look at me after the slinking away of that leering and treacherous yellow moon. 
And to escape this relentless thing I plunged gladly and unhesitantly into the stinking shallows where amidst weedy walls and sunken streets fat sea-worms feast upon the world's dead. 
Oversite 
“It doesn’t hurt, Gram,” Renata says. 
My sixteen-year-old daughter pulls up her T-shirt sleeve to show her bare arm, the skin summer brown and the muscle swelling slightly into smooth biceps, flawless. 
“I had it done when I was little and see, you can’t even tell.” 
My mother is sitting in the little examining room at the assisted living. 
Everything is white and hospital-like but there’s no examining couch. 
There’s just a desk, a little white table with two chairs and a scale. 
The doctor, a woman I don’t know, is sitting in the other chair. 
My mother is bewildered, her face turned up towards me. 
She’s got Alzheimer’s. 
“It’s okay, Mom,” I say. 
She wants to understand, I can see that. 
So I explain again. 
“It’s an implant that will let them know where you are, and how you are. 
It won’t hurt.” 
Her eyes water constantly, now. 
In the time it takes me to explain she grasps and loses the words, grasps and loses phrases as they go past. 
She looks at me and then at Renata, who is smiling, and finally submits uncomprehendingly. 
We have worn her down. 
The doctor bares my mother’s arm, where the crepey flesh hangs loosely on the bones. 
The doctor swabs her upper arm with antiseptic and says, “I’m going to give you something to numb it, okay?” 
To me the doctor says in her normal voice, “It’s just a little lidocaine.” 
I don’t like the doctor, but I don’t know why. 
She is no-nonsense. 
She has professional hair, lightly streaked. 
This is no reason to dislike her. 
My mother winces at the injection and is surprised again. 
She looks up at me, at Renata. 
We are smiling, both of us. 
“Okay,” my mother says. 
What is okay? 
I have no idea. 
We wait for a few minutes. 
My mother says, “Is it time to go?” 
“Not yet,” I say. 
“They’re going to give you an injection.” 
“What?” my mother says. 
“They’re going to implant a chip. 
It will help them take care of you.” 
I try to say it every time as if it was the first time I said it. 
I don’t want to embarrass her. 
Her head swings around, from Renata to me to the doctor and then back to Renata. 
“It’s okay, Gram,” Renata says. 
“Renata,” my mother says. 
The doctor has an injection gun and while my mother is focused on my daughter, she puts it firmly against my mother’s arm and puts the chip in. 
“Oh!” says my mother. 
It’s another low-grade moment of horror, but I think about that particular time with my mother because Renata was there and we were united, she and I. 
So that’s a good memory. 
I come back to it a lot. 
In the background, shining, is Renata, who is young and healthy and good, raising her arm to show her grandmother that the chip is nothing, nothing at all. 
The last two nights I have dreamed of dogs in trouble. 
I don’t dream about Renata, although when the dreams wake me up, it’s thinking about Renata that keeps me awake. 
The first night I dreamed of seeing a stray dog and not stopping to pick it up although it was wandering in an empty parking lot near a busy road. 
That was the first night Renata didn’t come home and it doesn’t take Freud to figure out what that meant. 
Seventeen-year-olds sleep on friends’ couches, I know. 
Or Renata might be sleeping in her car. 
The second night I dreamed that I was on a desert island and Sonia, our golden retriever, was with me. 
There was some horrible fate impending for Sonia and I had to kill her before something worse happened. 
I laid her down on some sticks. 
She trusts me, she’s more my dog than anyone’s, and she didn’t like it but for me she lay there. 
In my dream I told her, “Stay, Sonia. Stay.” 
She stayed because I held her there by looking at her, the way you can sometimes will a dog into submission. 
She stayed while I lit the fire. 
And then the horror of it all hit me and I said, “Sonia, up!” 
And I woke up. 
That was last night, the second night Renata didn’t come home. 
Prologue 
"Try to touch the past. 
Try to deal with the past. 
It's not real. 
It's just a dream." 
— Ted Bundy 
It didn't start out here. 
Not with the scramblers or Rorschach, not with Big Ben or Theseus or the vampires. 
Most people would say it started with the Fireflies, but they'd be wrong. 
It ended with all those things. 
For me, it began with Robert Paglino. 
At the age of eight, he was my best and only friend. 
We were fellow outcasts, bound by complementary misfortune. 
Mine was developmental. 
His was genetic: an uncontrolled genotype that left him predisposed to nearsightedness, acne, and (as it later turned out) a susceptibility to narcotics. 
His parents had never had him optimized. 
Those few TwenCen relics who still believed in God also held that one shouldn't try to improve upon His handiwork. 
So although both of us could have been repaired, only one of us had been. 
I arrived at the playground to find Pag the center of attention for some half-dozen kids, those lucky few in front punching him in the head, the others making do with taunts of mongrel and polly while waiting their turn. 
I watched him raise his arms, almost hesitantly, to ward off the worst of the blows. 
I could see into his head better than I could see into my own; he was scared that his attackers might think those hands were coming up to hit back, that they'd read it as an act of defiance and hurt him even more. 
Even then, at the tender age of eight and with half my mind gone, I was becoming a superlative observer. 
But I didn't know what to do. 
I hadn't seen much of Pag lately. 
I was pretty sure he'd been avoiding me. 
Still, when your best friend's in trouble you help out, right? 
Even if the odds are impossible — and how many eight-year-olds would go up against six bigger kids for a sandbox buddy? — at least you call for backup. 
Flag a sentry. 
Something. 
I just stood there. 
I didn't even especially want to help him. 
That didn't make sense. 
Even if he hadn't been my best friend, I should at least have empathized. 
I'd suffered less than Pag in the way of overt violence; my seizures tended to keep the other kids at a distance, scared them even as they incapacitated me. 
Still. 
I was no stranger to the taunts and insults, or the foot that appears from nowhere to trip you up en route from A to B. 
I knew how that felt. 
Or I had, once. 
But that part of me had been cut out along with the bad wiring. 
I was still working up the algorithms to get it back, still learning by observation. 
Pack animals always tear apart the weaklings in their midst. 
Every child knows that much instinctively. 
Maybe I should just let that process unfold, maybe I shouldn't try to mess with nature. 
Then again, Pag's parents hadn't messed with nature, and look what it got them: a son curled up in the dirt while a bunch of engineered superboys kicked in his ribs. 
In the end, propaganda worked where empathy failed. 
Back then I didn't so much think as observe, didn't deduce so much as remember — and what I remembered was a thousand inspirational stories lauding anyone who ever stuck up for the underdog. 
So I picked up a rock the size of my fist and hit two of Pag's assailants across the backs of their heads before anyone even knew I was in the game. 
A third, turning to face the new threat, took a blow to the face that audibly crunched the bones of his cheek. 
I remember wondering why I didn't take any satisfaction from that sound, why it meant nothing beyond the fact I had one less opponent to worry about. 
The rest of them ran at the sight of blood. 
One of the braver promised me I was dead, shouted "Fucking zombie!" over his shoulder as he disappeared around the corner. 
Three decades it took, to see the irony in that remark. 
Two of the enemy twitched at my feet. 
I kicked one in the head until it stopped moving, turned to the other. 
Something grabbed my arm and I swung without thinking, without looking until Pag yelped and ducked out of reach. 
"Oh," I said. 
"Sorry." 
One thing lay motionless. 
The other moaned and held its head and curled up in a ball. 
"Oh shit," Pag panted. 
Blood coursed unheeded from his nose and splattered down his shirt. 
His cheek was turning blue and yellow. 
"Oh shit oh shit oh shit ..." 
I thought of something to say. 
"You all right?" 
"Oh shit, you — I mean, you never ..." 
He wiped his mouth. 
Blood smeared the back of his hand. 
"Oh man are we in trouble." 
"They started it." 
"Yeah, but you — I mean, look at them!" 
The moaning thing was crawling away on all fours. 
I wondered how long it would be before it found reinforcements. 
I wondered if I should kill it before then. 
"You'da never done that before," Pag said. 
Before the operation, he meant. 
I actually did feel something then — faint, distant, but unmistakable. 
I felt angry. 
"They started —" 
Pag backed away, eyes wide. 
"What are you doing? 
Put that down!" 
I'd raised my fists. 
I didn't remember doing that. 
I unclenched them. 
It took a while. 
I had to look at my hands very hard for a long, long time. 
The rock dropped to the ground, blood-slick and glistening. 
"I was trying to help." 
I didn't understand why he couldn't see that. 
"You're, you're not the same," Pag said from a safe distance. 
"You're not even Siri any more." 
"I am too. 
Don't be a fuckwad." 
"They cut out your brain!" 
"Only half. 
For the ep —" 
"I know for the epilepsy! 
You think I don't know? 
But you were in that half — or, like, part of you was ..." 
He struggled with the words, with the concept behind them. 
"And now you're different. 
It's like, your mom and dad murdered you —" 
"My mom and dad," I said, suddenly quiet, "saved my life. 
I would have died." 
"I think you did die," said my best and only friend. 
"I think Siri died, they scooped him out and threw him away and you're some whole other kid that just, just grew back out of what was left. 
You're not the same. 
Ever since. 
You're not the same." 
Daisy 
by Andrew Willett 
It was Sunday in snowy Manhattan. 
Jenna was in the tub, and I was doing the Times crossword, listening to the clang of the radiators and the swish of the taxis on the slush outside, when my coffee-scented reverie was broken by a loud squawk from the bathroom, and a splash, and a flesh-upon-cold-tile sort of thump. 
“Go away! 
Shoo! 
Get out of my bathroom!” 
I threw down my pen and dashed down the hall. 
Jenna was picking herself up off the floor of the bathroom. 
In the bathtub, a bar of soap was gaily chasing a nylon scrubby thing around the surface of the water. 
“Damned pixies!” Jenna said, smacking the bathtub’s drain lever. 
“Again! 
I am so tired of these things!” 
A piteous squeak came from the scrubby thing as the water began to swirl down the drain. 
A translucent little head poked out from behind a pot of organic-sugarcane exfoliating body polish, and looked at me with exaggerated puppy eyes and a trembling lower lip. 
“Sorry, kids,” I said to the bathtub. 
“Don’t humor them, dammit,” Jenna said, and stomped, still naked, still wet, toward the phone in the kitchen. 
She’d be irritated by her own wet footprints on the battered wood of the hallway floor later, but right now she had blood on her mind. 
Or water. 
Ichor. 
Whatever it is that the common Manhattan water-pixie uses for blood. 
I couldn’t say I blamed her. 
She got the brunt of the pixies’ odd sense of humor much more than I did, because she’s the one who likes to take baths. 
Although I will say that a pixie hiding in the sink among the dirty soup bowls makes doing the dishes an adventure. 
“Ramon? 
Hi. 
It’s Jenna McMasters in 5C. 
Ramon, the pixies are out of control. 
You’ve got to do something about — 
yes, I know — 
Ramon, the equinox isn’t for weeks and weeks. 
Really, we need you to do something sooner ... 
Well, I’m just not ready to wait that long. 
We may have to try something on our own, then. 
Goodbye, Ramon. 
You’ve been a huge goddamn help.” 
She hung up the phone. 
“Man, he’s useless,” she said. 
“On the other hand,” I said, “he’s the first super we’ve had who keeps the boiler, the door buzzers, and the electrical system in perfect working order.” 
I took the robe I’d brought from the bathroom and wrapped it around her shoulders. 
“What is it they say in yoga class? 
Take a deep cleansing breath. 
Spiral out from your navel center, and stuff.” 
“Robert, this sort of thing never happened in San Francisco.” 
“No,” I said. 
“In San Francisco we got earthquakes, and there were wood sprites in Golden Gate Park. 
Welcome to New York.” 
“I keep trying to tell myself that this is cool. 
But then they come at me on a Sunday morning, when I have no work to do and I’m trying to relax and I’m naked, and I just lose it ....” 
“And you take it out on the super,” I said. 
“And now I’m gonna have a bruise on my butt, too,” she said. 
“Well, that’s karma for you. 
Now stretch out on the couch, and I’ll bring you coffee and rub your feet.” 
Jenna smiled. 
“Just make sure there are no pixies in the coffee pot, is all I ask.” 
Ugh. 
That was our previous Sunday morning adventure: most unpleasant, and marked by the death of a new French-press pot. 
I realized that I, too, hated the pixies. 
“We need a plan,” I said. 
Stranger Things Happen - 
Water Off a Black Dog’s Back 
Rachel Rook took Carroll home to meet her parents two months after she first slept with him. 
For a generous girl, a girl who took off her clothes with abandon, she was remarkably close-mouthed about some things. 
In two months Carroll had learned that her parents lived on a farm several miles outside of town; that they sold strawberries in summer, and Christmas trees in the winter. 
He knew that they never left the farm; instead, the world came to them in the shape of weekend picnickers and driveby tourists. 
Do you think your parents will like me?" he said. 
He had spent the afternoon preparing for this visit as carefully as if he were preparing for an exam. 
He had gotten his hair cut, trimmed his nails, washed his neck and behind his ears. 
The outfit he had chosen, khaki pants and a blue button-down shirt -- no tie -- lay neatly folded on the bed. 
He stood before Rachel in his plain white underwear and white socks, gazing at her as if she were a mirror. 
"No," she said. 
It was the first time she had been to his apartment, and she stood square in the center of his bedroom, her arms folded against her body as if she was afraid to sit down, to touch something. 
"Why?" 
"My father will like you," she said. 
"But he likes everyone. 
My mother's more particular -- 
she thinks that you lack a serious nature." 
Carroll put on his pants, admiring the crease. 
"So you've talked to her about me." 
"Yes." 
"But you haven't talked about her to me." 
"No." 
"Are you ashamed of her?" 
Rachel snorted. 
Then she sighed in a way that seemed to suggest she was regretting her decision to take him home. 
"You're ashamed of me," he guessed, and Rachel kissed him and smiled and didn't say anything. 
Rachel still lived on her parents' farm, which made it all the more remarkable that she had kept Carroll and her parents apart for so long. 
It suggested a talent for daily organization that filled Carroll's heart with admiration and lust. 
She was nineteen, two years younger than Carroll; she was a student at Jellicoh College and every weekday she rose at seven and biked four miles into town, and then back again on her bike, four miles uphill to the farm. 
Carroll met Rachel in the Jellicoh College library, where he had a part-time job. 
He sat at the checkout desk, stamping books and reading Tristram Shandy for a graduate class; he was almost asleep when someone said, "Excuse me." 
He looked up. 
The girl who stood before the tall desk was red-headed. 
Sunlight streaming in through a high window opposite her lit up the fine hairs on her arm, the embroidered flowers on the collar of her white shirt. 
The sunlight turned her hair to fire and Carroll found it difficult to look directly at her. 
"Can I help you?" he said. 
She placed a shredded rectangle on the desk, and Carroll picked it up between his thumb and forefinger. 
Pages hung in tatters from the sodden blue spine. 
Title, binding, and covers had been gnawed away. 
"I need to pay for a damaged book," she said. 
"What happened? Did your dog eat it?" he said, making a joke. 
"Yes," she said, and smiled. 
"What's your name?" Carroll said. 
Already, he thought he might be in love. 
Doesn’t it make you just want to sneeze? 
Pete was leaning against the wall, watching the street go by. 
I pulled the bike to a halt, the front wheel pointing in his direction. 
“I think I’ve got a fairy stuck up my nose.” 
“S’ not true!” came a voice from inside the nose in question. 
“Hey! Not bad that!” Pete said. 
“I didn’t see your lips move at all.” 
“It’s not a joke.” 
The itching was getting worse. 
I pulled out a paper tissue. 
“Stop that now!” came the voice again. 
“You know I don’t like it.” 
“S’ not my fault. 
You make me want to sneeze!” 
And I did. 
I inspected the crumpled paper. 
Lots of yellow goo, but no fairy. 
Pete looked at me with mild disgust as I eyed the handkerchief more closely. 
“You know that’s pretty gross …” he said. 
“Got any other brilliant remarks?” I said. 
I held a finger up to my lips, and waved a hand to silence Pete’s reply. 
“Are you still there?” I called. 
“No thanks to you!” came the little voice. 
Pete looked at me sort of sideways. 
“Look, the first time was OK, but —” 
“It’s not a joke. 
I’ve really got something stuck up there. 
I was riding on me bike and I thought I’d swallowed an insect or something. 
And then it started insulting me.” 
“You’re having me on, right?” 
“Pete! 
Look at me. 
If it’s a trick, how do I do it then?” 
Pete thought for a moment. 
“If it’s real … Aren’t they supposed to have a pot of gold or something? 
And they have to tell you where it is if you catch them?” 
“That’s leprechauns, idiot!” said the voice from my noise. 
“So what’s the difference? 
Just give us the gold and we’ll let you go …” 
“We —?” I started. 
He winked at me. 
“Oh, I’m happy to stick around,” came the voice. 
“It’s noggins here who wants to get rid of me …” 
Suddenly I felt a violent pain in my nose, my eyes watered. 
“Owwww!” I howled. 
“See what I mean?” the voice shouted over my moans. 
“Perhaps you can use it in exams …” Pete said, scratching his head. 
“You know, it could tell us all the answers.” 
“Idiot! 
If it yacks on like that in an exam, I’ll get thrown out. 
And probably locked up too.” 
“Can’t it whisper?” 
“Perhaps I don’t know the answers anyway?” said the voice. 
“Have you thought of that?” 
“Anyway, I don’t want it in exams. 
I just want it to go. 
Out of my nose.” 
“Can’t you just poke it out?” 
“With what?” 
“S’pose you’ve already tried your finger …” 
“Yes he has,” the voice said. 
“And it wasn’t pleasant I can tell you.” 
“You see what it’s like. 
He’s already making sarcastic remarks like that …” 
“What if we put something in your nose to catch it, then? 
I don’t know … A spider?” 
“No!” we both said at once. 
“Snap!” Pete said. 
“You both said the same thing at the same time, you’ve got to make a —” He hit his forehead with his palm. 
“That’s it! 
Three wishes! 
When you catch a fairy, you get three wishes. 
Hey you in there! 
Is that right?” 
“You could see things like that …” said the voice with resignation. 
“I wish you’d get out of my nose, then!” I cried. 
In a flash the fairy was out of my nose and gone. 
And I’m still waiting for my two other wishes. 
THE END 
Something a little lighter this week, I hope you enjoy it. 
Once it got started, I realised that the idea must have been inspired by the title of Justine Larbalestier’s How to Ditch Your Fairy, although it has nothing at all to do with that story at all. 
All in all, my story feels very light. 
But I think I needed something a little less dark, and there are some quite sombre tales coming up in the coming weeks. 
See you then. 
The Further Vision 
“I have already told you of the sickness and confusion that comes with time travelling. 
And this time I was not seated properly in the saddle, but sideways and in an unstable fashion. 
For an indefinite time I clung to the machine as it swayed and vibrated, quite unheeding how I went, and when I brought myself to look at the dials again I was amazed to find where I had arrived. 
One dial records days, and another thousands of days, another millions of days, and another thousands of millions. 
Now, instead of reversing the levers, I had pulled them over so as to go forward with them, and when I came to look at these indicators I found that the thousands hand was sweeping round as fast as the seconds hand of a watch—into futurity. 
“As I drove on, a peculiar change crept over the appearance of things. 
The palpitating greyness grew darker; then—though I was still travelling with prodigious velocity—the blinking succession of day and night, which was usually indicative of a slower pace, returned, and grew more and more marked. 
This puzzled me very much at first. 
The alternations of night and day grew slower and slower, and so did the passage of the sun across the sky, until they seemed to stretch through centuries. 
At last a steady twilight brooded over the earth, a twilight only broken now and then when a comet glared across the darkling sky. 
The band of light that had indicated the sun had long since disappeared; for the sun had ceased to set—it simply rose and fell in the west, and grew ever broader and more red. 
All trace of the moon had vanished. 
The circling of the stars, growing slower and slower, had given place to creeping points of light. 
At last, some time before I stopped, the sun, red and very large, halted motionless upon the horizon, a vast dome glowing with a dull heat, and now and then suffering a momentary extinction. 
At one time it had for a little while glowed more brilliantly again, but it speedily reverted to its sullen red heat. 
I perceived by this slowing down of its rising and setting that the work of the tidal drag was done. 
The earth had come to rest with one face to the sun, even as in our own time the moon faces the earth. 
Very cautiously, for I remembered my former headlong fall, I began to reverse my motion. 
Slower and slower went the circling hands until the thousands one seemed motionless and the daily one was no longer a mere mist upon its scale. 
Still slower, until the dim outlines of a desolate beach grew visible. 
“I stopped very gently and sat upon the Time Machine, looking round. 
The sky was no longer blue. 
North-eastward it was inky black, and out of the blackness shone brightly and steadily the pale white stars. 
Overhead it was a deep Indian red and starless, and south-eastward it grew brighter to a glowing scarlet where, cut by the horizon, lay the huge hull of the sun, red and motionless. 
The rocks about me were of a harsh reddish colour, and all the trace of life that I could see at first was the intensely green vegetation that covered every projecting point on their south-eastern face. 
It was the same rich green that one sees on forest moss or on the lichen in caves: plants which like these grow in a perpetual twilight. 
“The machine was standing on a sloping beach. 
The sea stretched away to the south-west, to rise into a sharp bright horizon against the wan sky. 
There were no breakers and no waves, for not a breath of wind was stirring. 
Only a slight oily swell rose and fell like a gentle breathing, and showed that the eternal sea was still moving and living. 
And along the margin where the water sometimes broke was a thick incrustation of salt—pink under the lurid sky. 
There was a sense of oppression in my head, and I noticed that I was breathing very fast. 
The sensation reminded me of my only experience of mountaineering, and from that I judged the air to be more rarefied than it is now. 
“Far away up the desolate slope I heard a harsh scream, and saw a thing like a huge white butterfly go slanting and fluttering up into the sky and, circling, disappear over some low hillocks beyond. 
The sound of its voice was so dismal that I shivered and seated myself more firmly upon the machine. 
Looking round me again, I saw that, quite near, what I had taken to be a reddish mass of rock was moving slowly towards me. 
Then I saw the thing was really a monstrous crab-like creature. 
Can you imagine a crab as large as yonder table, with its many legs moving slowly and uncertainly, its big claws swaying, its long antennæ, like carters’ whips, waving and feeling, and its stalked eyes gleaming at you on either side of its metallic front? 
Its back was corrugated and ornamented with ungainly bosses, and a greenish incrustation blotched it here and there. 
I could see the many palps of its complicated mouth flickering and feeling as it moved. 
The Cost to Be Wise 
Veronique stayed with me that night, lying next to me in my blankets and furs. 
She didn't sleep, I don't think. 
I was listening to her breath. 
I felt as if I should help her sleep. 
I lay there and tried to think if I should put my arm around her, but I didn't know. 
Maybe she didn't want to be touched. 
And she had been a stupid girl, anyway. 
She lay tense in the dark. 
"Are you going to be a teacher?" I asked. 
She laughed. 
"If I get out of here." 
I waited for her to say more, but she didn't. 
"Get out of here" meant to make someone leave. 
Maybe she meant if she made herself. 
"You come here from Earth?" I asked. 
To get her to talk, although I was tired of lingua and I didn't really want to think about anything. 
"My family came here from Earth," she said. 
"Why?" 
"My father, he's an anthropologist," she said. 
"Do you know anthropologist?" 
"No," I said. 
"He is a person who studies the way people live. 
And he is a teacher." 
All the offworlders I had ever met were teachers. 
I wondered who did all the work on Earth. 
"Because Earth had lost touch with your world, the people here are very interesting to my father," she said. 
Her voice was listless in the dark and she was even harder to understand when I couldn't see her properly. 
I didn't understand so I didn't say anything. 
I was sorry I'd started her talking. 
"History, do you know the word ' history '?" she asked. 
Of course I knew the word "history." 
"I study history in school," I said. 
Anneal and Kumar taught it. 
"Do you know the history of this world?" 
It took my tired head a long time to sort that out. 
"Yes," I said. 
"We are a colony. 
People from Earth come here to live. 
Then there is a big problem on Earth, and the people of Earth forget we are here. 
We forget we are from Earth. 
Then Earth finds us again." 
"Some people have stories about coming from the Earth," Veronique said. 
"My father is collecting those stories from different peoples. 
I'm a graduate student." 
The clans didn't have any stories about coming from Earth. 
We said the first people came out of the sun. 
This somehow seemed embarrassing. 
I didn't understand what kind of student she was. 
"Are you here for stories?" I asked. 
"No," she said. 
"Ian is old friends with your teacher, from back when they were both with the survey. 
We just came to visit." 
I didn't understand what she'd said except that they were visiting. 
We were quiet after that. 
I pretended to sleep. 
Sometimes there was gunfire outside and we jumped, even Mam on the bed. 
Everyone but Bet. 
Once Bet was asleep it was impossible to wake her up. 
I fell asleep thinking about how I wished that the Scathalos outrunners were gone. 
I dreamed that I was at the offworlder's home, where it was summer but no one was taking care of the stabros, and they were all glad, and so I was a hero - and I was startled awake by gunfire. 
Just more drinking and shooting. 
I wished my da would come home. 
It didn't seem fair that we should lie here and be afraid while the men were getting drunk and singing. 
The Chemical Wedding by Christian Rosencreutz 
A ROMANCE IN EIGHT DAYS by JOHANN VALENTIN ANDREAE in a new version by JOHN CROWLEY illustrated by THEO FADEL 
SMALL BEER PRESS EASTHAMPTON, MASS. 
Introduction 
I 
The Chemical Wedding by Christian Rosencreutz is the way I’ve decided to present the title of this book. 
Most versions in English are called The Chemical Wedding of Christian Rosencreutz, which suggests (and most people who’ve heard of it suppose) that the wedding is Christian’s. 
It’s not; Christian Rosencreutz is the purported author of a book called The Chemical Wedding. 
The actual author is Johann Valentin Andreae, whose name didn’t appear on the book originally, thus ensuring the confusion. 
I’ll call it herein (as everyone mostly does) simply The Chemical Wedding. 
Though its original readers would have had a certain amount of context for the truly bizarre and surprising events it tells of, it’s possible that The Chemical Wedding is now more enjoyable without knowing that context, and experiencing the book unmediated. 
You might therefore wish to start right in on the first page of text that follows and only then return to this introduction. 
Consider a similar case: a little book published in 1934 by the Surrealist artist Max Ernst called Une Semaine de Bonté. 
It was made entirely of collaged illustrations cut out of old books 
The First Day 
It was just before Easter Sunday, 1 and I was sitting at my table. 
I’d said my prayers, talking a long time as usual with my Maker and thinking about some of the great mysteries the Father of Lights had revealed to me. 
Now I was ready to make and to bake – only in my heart, actually – a small, perfect unleavened wafer to eat with my beloved Paschal Lamb. 
All of a sudden a terrible wind blew up, so strong that I thought the hill my little house was built on would be blown apart – but I’d seen the Devil do things as bad as this before (the Devil had often tried to harm me), so I took heart and went on meditating. 
Till I felt somebody touch me on the back. 
This frightened me so that I didn’t dare turn. 
I tried to stay as brave and calm as a human being could under the circumstances. 
I felt my coat tugged at, and tugged again, and at last I looked around. 
A woman stood there, so bright and beautiful, in a sky-colored robe – a heavens covered with 
1 Christian’s story begins just before Easter, like Dante’s Divine Comedy. 
It can be seen as an allegory of Christ’s death and resurrection, though this idea produces some puzzles. 
The birds sang so beautifully, the young deer skipped so happily, that it gladdened my old heart, and I couldn't help singing too ... 
THE FOURTH DAY 
I was awake and lying in bed next morning, looking idly at the wonderful images and inscriptions all around my room, when suddenly I heard the sound of trumpets, as if a procession were already underway. 
My page jumped out of bed as if crazed, looking more dead than alive, and you can imagine how I felt when he cried, “They're already being presented to the king!" 
I could only groan in frustration and curse my lazy bones. 
I got dressed, but my page was quicker than I was and ran out of the chamber to see what was what. 
He soon came back and gave me the good news that I actually hadn’t overslept; all I’d done was miss breakfast: they hadn’t wanted to wake an old man who needed his rest. 
But now I had to get ready to go with him to the lion fountain, where most of the others were gathered. 
Such a relief! 
My spirits recovered, and as soon as I had got into my habit, I followed him to the garden I have already told about. 
I found that the lion, in place of his sword, now held a rather large plaque. 
Examining this, I could tell that it had been taken from those ancient monuments I’d seen and put here for some special reason. 
The inscription on it was fading away, so I should set it down here as it was then, and ask my readers to ponder it: 
Prince Hermes: Now after humankind has suffered so much harm here I flow having by god’s counsel and with the help of art become a healing balm. 
Drink from me if you can; wash, if you like; trouble my waters if you dare. 
Drink, Brethren! 
Drink and live! 
