My dad just doesn't understand? 
Ugh my dad is so stupid... he just doesn't understand anything! 
I have 5 sisters and so including my mom... he is the only guy in a house of six females. 
Now I'm the youngest and I just got my period so now we all have ours and he thinks it's a good thing? 
He's always like "ohh you must be so happy to finally have yours, I wish I had mine!" and he isn't even joking. 
I think just living in a house with so many girls is making him go crazy? 
Yep, the females are just getting to him... dads.. 
Don't blame him please, he feels lonely and wants to show his attention to all of you to look after you, please forgive and sympathy if he miss something. 
I am sorry for him, he is a good dad 
Equine collages uk NEED HELP!!!? 
Can somebody give me the names some collages that do post 18 (degrees or foundation degrees) in either: 
Horse behaviour/training or 
Equine psychology 
No one employs people from Hartpury because of what they received on work experience. 
Merrist Wood (I'm there on a NVQ equine course) do HND in equine management. 
Your best bet is to look on UCAS and do a course search. 
Merrist Wood in Woking in Surrey. 
Moreton Morrell in Coventry, Warwickshire 
Hartpury College (I think that is the name, but if you type it in it should come up with an alternative suggestion), in Gloucestershire. 
Go onto the UCAS website, go onto course search and search for the courses you want to do. 
They'll give you a comprehensive list of all the universities that do the courses you want, plus all the information you need to apply. 
Besides from Pacquiao, what else is The Philipines famous for? 
Cheap hookers 
You shouldn't ask this question it's intimidating, if i tell you what people knows about Philippines you will blush, thank god many thinks i'm japanese just because of the way i keep myself, the way i talk and treat people, and the way i dress, so if you don't want nasty, insulting answers especially from those undesirable migrants like puttagenius, caloy, gro science, and irene. 
In fact Philippines is famous to accept people like these people i mentioned whose not filipinos but helping the Philippines to plunge in the pit as they are the rot of the country.
They need to be expulse from the country and if they are not there they should be banned entering the country to plant their eggs, as they are considered as the rotten left overs of dinasaurs 
Being the texting capital of the world. 
Would you recommend living in Limerick as a student? 
I've been given the opportunity to live in Limerick, Ireland, next year as part of my course..if you know about Limerick, what are the pros and cons? 
and would you recommend it as a student? 
The L.I.T is so close to Moyross, yet again the ppl who talk sh*t about Moyross still go there. 
Limerick's a great student city, there's loads on, you'll be spoilt for choice. 
In fact, you probably won't ever want to leave. 
Orla got it in one. 
Although there is 'bad press' directing at AREA'S of limerick, but nowhere near the university. 
Limerick is such a full city, shopping, night life, career choices, social choices, I came here about 12 years ago for college.....and Orla got it spot on, I haven't left, nor would I. 
Its now my home. 
My myTouch 4G crashes with most custom ROMs I install. 
Can that be fixed? 
I really like the MIUI, but a process crashes repeatedly about every 3 seconds. 
And I can't even load the newest version of Cyanogen Mod. 
not by the company... as you voided your warrenty by installing custom roms 
you are best to either recover to the standard ROM, or find one that doesn't crash. 
cynangon mod should work. 
Have you tried using clockwork recovery? 
Get the older version of Cynagon mod. 
Also you could use a stable rom like bugless beast and baked snake. 
Those roms focus on speed and stability. 
Or you could just use a home screen launcher replacement. 
I would recommend go launcher or adw launcher. 
They are both excellent and speed up the phone quite a bit. 
As a mytouch 4g owner I know the phone is pretty fast and their is no point installing a rom. 
Hope you read through this. 
are the moors and penines in Yorkshire a lonely eerie place? 
and how big are they? 
im 33. 
ive never been to the yorkshire moors or penines at all...i can see the penines in the far distance from my bedroom window. 
when i watched werewolf in london ( great film) that was the only time i saw the yorkshire moors. 
can anyone give me information about them? 
They can be bleak and eerie, often very exposed, often covered with antiquities like bronze age burial mounds, stone circles and settlements--until late in the bronze age they were rich farmlands,then a change in the climate caused the skies to cloud over and rain to wash the goodness from the soil.
The people abandoned their farms and religious sites and the ground they stood on became moorland. 
They can also be very beautiful when the purple heather is out, and they are habitat to much wildlife and many species of wildflowers. 
I have a western pleasure appy thats really heavy on her left lead at the lope? 
My appy is very heavy on her left lead at the lope. 
She seems to lope one stride and trot the next and repeat... 
How could I work with her to get off her four hand,get balance, and lope smoothly and slowly?? 
Put on a pair of spurs and before she makes that trot step, it's in the feeling when you feel her think trot, tick her with the spur and lift with your body to keep her moving. 
If you concentrate on that feel just before the trot you can figure it out and the timing is essential to push her at that instant. 
Lope her to the left in circles, keep her head to the inside of the circle and push her but out, keep doing this if she breaks to a jog go a little bit bigger circle, till she can get enough balance to go small and small.circles 
my new OLYMPUS X940 DIGITAL CAMERA...? 
hi everyone....just hav my hands on my new OLYMPUS X940 digital camera..wel,i always wanted 2 hav one by sony..but anyways,ended up having olympus X940 from my dad.......does any1 already has it?
how has ur experience with it?
is it a gud option for casual/formal functions photography?????
wht abt its picture quality???
is it comparable to sony products or not?? 
it has 14 mega pixel camera...n 4xwide optical zoom... 
ur answers and reviews wud be highly appreciated.......thanks!!!!!!! 
Olympus X-940 14 Megapixel Digital Camera has filters and can do all sorts of special effects. 
It is def worth more than the price. 
I am VERY satisfied. 
A good camera for the plain point and shoot. 
My answer is that we don't to text speak here... we type in English. 
Get your English in order before writing here again please. 
dead pixel of my photos? 
just want to ask..i have an nikon dslr..im wondering why if i zoom my picture zoom like almost 200-300percent..i can see some dead pixel...is there something wrong with my camera body?
lens?
or what? 
please help me..and what should i do to fix this problem?
or it is normal? 
Are you sure it isn't dirt on the sensor? 
Put the camera on manual focus and set focus to infinity 
Take a photo of a very light plain subject close to the lens using long exposure and smallest aperture you have - over expose by a couple of stops 
You will see in the image if there is dirt as that will be the only thing in focus 
Cure is to get the sensor cleaned 
There should be a Pixel Mapping function in the menu that will get rid of them, most sensors have a few dead and flipped pixels, some only show up on long exposures. 
Chris 
New Zealand skilled migrant visa? 
If you apply for a skilled migrant workers visa and it is accepted do you have to find work in the same sector as your skills on your application or can you take up other work if you can't find something in your own field. 
I have posted this question on the NZ visa site and can't get any info, does anyone know.??? 
Watch out the poles are coming.....my little butterfly 
That would be preferable but it doesn't matter, could be something similar 
It depends on the conditions of your skilled migrant visa. 
Your visa should say whether or not you are restricted to work in a specific sector. 
If your visa does not restrict you from taking any work in New Zealand then you can work in any sector. 
It only matters if you received an offer of employment or if you are currently working in New Zealand and used that job in your application to get your skilled migrant visa. 
In Chicago, what is the best restaurant to dine at on a budget? 
Downtown Chicago, Loop, North 
Take the red line to Clark, then you turn right. 
Walk 2 blocks then turn right again. 
Walk 2 more blocks then cross the street. 
You will get to a place called "BIG BOWL". 
THAI FOOD AND ASIAN. 
BEST PLACE EVER!!!!!!!!!!!! 
McDonalds s 
Not necessarily the restaurant but what you order when you get there and what time you go. 
A lunch will be less expensive than a dinner. 
You can order appetizers rather than a full meal and have just as good a dinner. 
But the best way is to use coupons. 
Check out http://www.restaurant.com lots of restaurants you can look at the menu and check out prices. 
Yo also may want to try "small neighborhood" restaurants and support family run places rather than the large corporate chains. 
Not that there is anything wrong with that because they also employ local people that live and shop in the area. 
Is there any cure for mouse poison? 
I found a poor little mouse walking around in my friends house, and since I was able to catch it very easily (normally mice move at the speed of light), and since it was acting unresponsive, I thought it was infected with mouse poison, since my friend uses it. 
I know that the mouse will probably die, but I was wondering if there is any cure for mouse poison? 
I just hate to see the poor dears experience a slow painful death that way :( . 
Without knowing the exact poison, no. 
A common one is arsenic and there really isn't a way to cure that. 
Take the mouse to an emergency vet and have them use CO2 to put the mouse to sleep. 
Or, you can put the animal in a snap trap designed for rats or mice since that is the only really humane kill method for invasive animals. 
A quick cure would be Arm & Hammer to it's head. 
Crayola Air- Dry Clay? 
Ok. 
So I have a VERY long list of people I want to make Xmas gifts for and one of them is my best friend. 
She loves giraffes and homemade things! 
I am very artistic so I decided I was going to make her a giraffe sculpture. 
I don't have much money so I bought Crayola Air-Dry Clay. 
I have sculpted the giraffe laying down. 
The key is...I have a few problems: 
1. I tested it out by making a figure boat 
And after 4 days when it dried it was very fragile! 
(like VERY not in a good way) 
Is there any way to strengthen it? 
2. What kind of paint do I use to paint the giraffe? 
3. Is there any cheap way to give it a shine like I made it in a kiln? 
air dry clay works on armatures , the clay has a minor shrink percent, so you can leave the wire armature inside, paint with acrylic paint 
taking young cat with me for a week out of state? 
good idea? 
i have a 3-4 month old kitten and i live in forida. 
i am going to my grandmas in north carolina and we are going camping in a cabin in west virginia. 
My cat is a outside cat but she loves it inside. 
she is also good in a carrier. 
Should i bring her? 
if so how quick will she adapt to a litter box inside? 
thanks 
We took our cat Mitten camping. 
He loved it. 
But he was an inside/outside cat (only one I owned - rest have been 100 0nside cats). 
He was trained to a harness/leash for outside time but he knew to use the litter pan inside. 
If your cat is not trained to use the litter pan, you may have a problem taking her. 
NO! 
changing its surroundings too often will stress it out and it will get depressed, mean, sick, or will not want to be around you. 
What cleaners should I use for dusting around my parakeet? 
What cleaners can I use to dust around my budgie. 
Would pledge be ok? 
If not, what is? 
Your best bet would just be a swiffer duster -- they don't require cleaner. 
If you must use a cleaner, pledge should be fine if the area that you keep your parakeet in is well ventilated. 
I have had parakeets for a VERY long time, and I use pledge. 
Just keep a window open for a while for fresh air to circulate. 
I agree w the answer from Nothing. 
Even a cotton cloth (I like diapers) that is barely damp w water will work fine. 
Swiffer or any type of micro-fiber cloth is excellent. 
I use Miracle Cloth, they're fantastic, just don't use fabric softener or dryer sheets when cleaning them, it ruins their "grabbing" ability. 
http://www.solutions.com/jump.jsp?itemID=1361&itemType=PRODUCT&path=1%2C3%2C477&iProductID=1361 If anything you use has a strong or lingering fragrance it can bother or potentially injure the bird. 
RP: Is it wrong to want to remove a contact because they are really really stupid...? 
I didn't get to read the answers lol :( 
I'm not gonna say who, they are on now. 
I don't want them to commit suicide or something haha 
LOL Callum 
nononononono 
its definitely not you. 
no 
Its not any of you lol 
i emailed you saaaaaam. 
I don't know. 
how did you know. 
it's not me is it!? 
I'm mostly joking when I talk about suicide and really I'm not that stupid I just get in stupid situations D: 
iguzwhat lol 
whoooooo? 
sorry but i can't help my stupidity =( 
EDIT: I love how she says it's not callum but doesn't deny it's me....i think we all know who she's talking about... 
EDIT: now i'm curious... 
EDIT: How did I know... 
lol they really aren't that much worse than me 
and their gpa was better than mine.... 
can i buy a laptop in u.k and then take it to rep.ireland and put a irish pay,go dongle init? 
i want to buy a laptop for my girlfriend in ireland,would she be able to just use the dongle she uses for her pc and put it straight in the laptop and it work like normall?
thanks people 
Yes obviously the USB is region free which means you can use it anywhere. 
And every computer manufactured in both Ireland & the UK are Region 2 aka PAL. 
There won't be a difference since mobile broadband is supposed to be digital. 
But word of advice if you're get your girlfriend a laptop make sure its a good brand a not something like DELL, Acer, Asus, eMachines etc. 
just a heads up. 
yes of course you can.... 
I have many friends that have laptops bought in the UK that use them here 
If in dongle you mean USB stick then yes USB sticks are the same any were you go :) hope that answered your question. 
How do I take care of my newborn baby fish? 
I am nervous that my other fish will eat them, and I don't know what to feed them! 
I have counted around 25 of them and they currently reside in a 20 gallon tank. 
You could move all the babies into a fry net breeder or move all of the bigger fish (also the parents) to a different tank to avoid the babies getting eaten. 
Feed the babies 3-4 times a day with flakes. 
Provide plenty of hiding places like rocks, plants, etc in the tank. 
Its natural for some babies to be eaten by adults and if all of them survived your tank would be very overcrowded. 
Look in the pet stores for "fry food" or "baby fish foods". 
what kind of newborn fish you have? 
some parents would not eat there fish till a certain age jack dempsey for example would not eat there offspring till they mature but i would move the baby fish into a smaller tank and feed them flakes 
I have a question about McDonald's Monopoly! 
Please HELP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
If you can? 
TEN POINTS!!!!!!!!!!? 
Ok, I know that Mcdonald's has Monopoly going on right now. 
& I wanna know what food has the game pieces. 
And what food has EXTRA game pieces. 
Because Large Fries give you FOUR PIECES! 
When most of the food or drinks I got only included two! 
So can somebody please list ALL of the food that includes the game pieces, and the number of game pieces you get with THAT FOOD! 
PLEASE!!!!!! 
The person who best explains this, and helps me out the best with my question will be REWARDED WITH TEN POINTS!!!!!!! 
PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!!!!! 
THANK YOU!!!!!!!!!!!!! :D 
scroll down and this website shows each thing you can buy (: 
http://www.playatmcd.com/en-us/Main/Gameboard 
4 Peels: 
- 20 piece Chicken McNuggets 
- Large fries 
2 Peels: 
- Big Mac 
- 10 piece Chicken McNuggets 
- Medium Fountain Drink 
- McCAFE Drink 
- Filet-O-Fish 
- Hash Browns 
- Egg McMuffin, Sausage 
- Fruit & Maple Oatmeal 
bearded dragon spikes? 
bit of a stupid question but do the spikes/spines (whatever you call them) on their side and face area ever go hard. 
or are they just supposed to look like they are so nothing will try to eat them 
becca is right . 
iv owned beardies for ovr 3 yrs and i handle mine all the time.. they dont go hard lik eneedle hard but they arnt pillow soft. 
they use them to look prickly.. would you try to eat a cactus [if u had no knife] i know i wouldnt. 
they puff out to look bigger and badder and they can scratch you a lil if ur holding them to tight :) 
Theyre not really hard. 
Beardies are actually quite delicate. 
I'm assuming it's to scare off predators / like how they will puff up their neck spikes to make them look bigger to predators or enemies. 
they dont hurt unless your stupid enough to press on them. 
They just are there as an adaptation. 
what is a kimberwick bit used for? 
Used as a help for horses that are quite strong pullers while hacking, hunting and doing cross country. 
It is a curb bit with a ported mouth piece and some horses appreciate this to give them more room in their mouths for their tongues. 
It is not as precise as a pelham bit because it only uses one rein, though the modern ones have two or three slots on which to put the reins. 
The lower the reins, the stronger the action and the lower the reins the stronger the action on the poll too. 
Useful for younger kids who do not have big enough hands or the ability to handle two reins independently. 
For horses that are strong pullers. 
It just gives you a little leverage and curb pressure. 
It's nice for horses that need a little more than a snaffle. 
I know that's vague, but it depends on the horse. 
The rider needs to have independent hands as well, because you do NOT want to pull too hard on a bit like that. ;) 
How long to save up for a canon t3i? 
I want to save up for a canon t3i, around 750-800 + :( 
I'm currently 12 and I get about 20 dollars a week for lunch, sometimes a bit more, I plan to save 10 dollars every week :) 
My birthday is in november and I get about .... 150 or more since i hate my dads family.. haha 
Chinese new year ~ 300 
christmas ~ 100 
and yeaa... 
Can someone cunclude how long it might take me to save up for the canan t3i or some extra tips to save/gain money? :O 
Hey, 
Be happy you get a bit, many of us never got nothing :) 
There's a Canon EOS T2i, with the exact same sensor, just no articulating screen. 
It's around $100 less, which means you get the same camera but quicker! 
Here's a DSLR Buying Guide - http://www.the-dslr-photographer.com/2009/11/which-dslr-to-buy/ 
Don't worry about it. 
If you can't even do basic math, you'll never figure out how to use a DSLR camera properly. 
hey kido u made me smile 
does the POP drying time slow down if it not exposed to air? 
its for a craft project.....i want to use it the way u would use icing.... 
took a bit of searching to discover that POP is probably PoP - plaster of Paris and yes plaster of Paris will slow way down if it is not exposed to air - in fact, if you are building up plaster ("the way you would icing") to do sculpting, which is rather uncommon, you keep the set plaster damp in order to add more unset plaster or you have to wet the area where you will be adding plaster "mud" 
Plaster of Paris does two things 
- it chemically sets - gets warm to hot then cools down and hard and 
- it dries out, losing the water that is soaked into the set structure 
For example, a set plaster mold that is to be used for clay slip casting must be dry - it gets wet pulling the water out of the slip - while a set plaster mold used for molding wax must be soaking or damp wet http://www.mikegigi.com/castgobl.htm#LGGOBPROJ 
Dwarf Hamster Making Too Much Noise On Wheel at Night? 
I'm getting a dwarf Hamster tomorrow And i was just talking to my Mom and she said that we have to take out the wheel at night because it would disturb her sleep But i told her no because i said their energetic at night at my room is right next door to hers But i heard their are wheels that dont make noise at all what would be the price of it? 
I'm quite sure , you don't even have to buy another , all you need to do , is to pour some oil on the wheel , or even put some rubber on it's edges , the part that is making the noise . 
That might work 
Super Pet Silent Spinner Exercise Wheel 
Our Price: $10.99 to 12.99 PETSMART! 
works well lasts long. 
I have a dwarf hamster who HATES his wheel and doesn't use it - 
he makes so much MORE noise, as he plays and digs and jumps (seriously) 
wheels are relatively noiseless - 
a few squeaks from a wheel are better than the full wrath of a bored pet! 
Change of boarding station? 
How can I change my boarding station against the ticket I booked a month back from counter? 
My origin Station is Howrah, but I want to board at Asansol.. 
Does your train pass Asansol when starting from Howrah? 
If yes, you don't need to change it because you board later. 
If no, you'll have to go to one of the train stations. 
In Calcutta there is a Foreigner's reservation office where they speak English very well. 
I don't remember near which station it is though. 
They can help you and it is close to a train station in Calcutta so check a few big ones? 
Even if you don't find the foreigner's office you'll be fine in the normal Reservation Office of any big train station. 
This is where you can get AND change express train tickets. 
well if your desired boarding station comes after more than 2 or 3 halts of the actual boarding point, then the TC will cancel you ticket and allot the seat to others. 
so better inquire in railway office 
Contact the Indian railways.
You might end up as a no show passenger. 
petsmart application? 
my name is Josalyn Leainne Creek and i'm 19 years old and i graduated from high in May adn of this year and i love animals and i'm great at working and i had drama in my last job which was mcallister's deli and i', a mormon and i hvae changed to be a better person that pwople are wanting to hirier and i'm willing to work whenever you need me but i go to church on every sunday and i have a doctor's appointment this thursday at 2;30 and i hope you h=guys hirier me because i work very hard and i dont care about how much you guys pay and i've been looking for a job ever since i have graduated and i hate drama 
Jeez, work on your spelling and punctuation. 
It makes a huge difference. 
No one's going to hire you if you can't even spell, especially if you're a high school graduate. 
Cover letters and resumes need to be perfect. 
No one's going to take you seriously if they're full of typos and whatnot. 
Sorry, I would put that application in the round file. 
Nope 
Canadian student visa, can I used for other schools? 
I applied to get a student visa to study in Canada, I received one that is valid until October of 2015. 
Problem is, for some reason, the visa process took longer than it should, thus I missed school this semester (visa was issued to me about 25 days after school started so I couldn't attend), now I no longer want to go into that school (because they only would accept me again on September of 2012), I found a school that accepted me for may 2012, can I use the same visa that was issued to me? 
or do I need to reapply ? 
(in the visa itself, it does not mention anything about which school I m suppose to attend, and problem is, the embassy here in DC are not too nice and would never answer ANY questions....) any advice please? 
Visas and Study Permits are administered by Citizenship and Immigration Canada, and any questions regarding applications should be directed to them. 
So best advice is to go to the C&IC website and click "contact us" - http://www.cic.gc.ca/english/index.asp 
How Do you Prevent A Dwarf Hamster Escaping From The Cage? 
Im getting a dwarf hamster tomorrow and i saw videos on youtube of them escaping and if my hamster escaped because my mom will FREAK OUT!!! 
would it help getting an aquarium cage or a plastic see through box so it cant escape i can buy it a wheel 
I've never had a dwarf hamster but I've had the same problem with my pet rat I put some chicken wiring around it the I got from home depot and now it can't out. 
Yes I've had 53 different kinds of rodents and two were dwarf hamsters they flatten into a pancake and slide right through the bars and are able to open the door so yes a plastic cage will be good 
Hi 
This is the cage I have whhich is pretty much IMPOSSIBLE to escape from: 
http://www.petsathome.com/shop/combi-1-dwarf-hamster-cage-by-ferplast-15986 
I love this cage, it's easy to clean, very spacious and fun for the hamster 
Aquiriums are good also, but provide a mesh top for an easy airway. 
Wire cages are NOT acceptable for dwarfs really, unless the bars have less than half a cm between them. 
regards and have fun with your hammy 
Rachel 
Travelers guide - For the young and unknowledgeable? 
I am 17 years old. 
I do not get along with my family. 
I dislike this urban society and want to leave this whole enviroment. 
I am very unhappy here. 
I don't know the best way of doing it. 
Would it be best for me to finish college? 
wait for 18th birthday? 
I live in London. 
I want to go travelling. 
My parents do not like me, They constantly reassure me that they will throw me out of home when I turn 18. 
I don't particularly want to stay with them atm either. 
But right now its the most convenient thing to do. 
Anyway Advice for travelling. 
What is the best way of doing it? 
Hotels for travelling will be expensive. 
anybody is open to answers but I would much prefere somebody with traveling experience. 
I want to go all over :) I don't have a set route yet. 
Get a back pack and sleeping bag or good warm blanket. 
Wool is best. 
Light ,warm, but also itchy. 
Hit the road. 
You can always beg for spare change when you get hungry. 
Should get some survival skills before setting out on your own. 
Vietnamese girl's name, Mayko? 
I always thought Mayko or Meiko is a Japanese name. 
The Canadian Regenesis actress Mayko Nguyen has Japanese connection or is it her fake name? 
Right, I couldn't find any proven source for that. 
And her last name, Nguyen is a typical Vietnamese family name...anyone? 
Certainly, Nguyen is the one of first names of many people in Vietnam, only in Vietnam. 
Mayko is relating to the Japanese. 
In Vietnam, when a baby was born, they must be named "first name" according to that of their fathers. 
It's principle except a number of cases, for example, the babies are orphans or not to have father. 
E.g. 
Full name of the father is: "Nguyen Thanh Luan" ===> Full name of the son/daughter certainly is " Nguyen..........", for instance, "Nguyen Thi Thuy Lan". 
But if the babies were born in American so they would named in other way but still remain "First name" in order to recall about their origination. 
I'm pretty sure that Mayko is Japanese. 
She is a Canadian born Vietnamese. 
I'm not sure where her first name is from... 
I have a splitter/filter between my ADSL and ph line? 
I have 2 phones running on the same line and the ADSL which is connected to one of the phones and the filter, I'm still getting a buzzing noise even when I have disconnected the other phone without one. 
Why is it stil doing this even though I don't have the other phone connected? 
Woud it be better if I got another filter and connected the other phone as well? 
turn the modem off and see if the sound is still there... could be static on the line... if the sound is still there with the modem off then the problem is NOT the DSL.... 
if the trouble goes away with the modem off, then make sure that EVERYTHING EXCEPT the modem is filtered, this would include the alarm system, fax machine, satellite boxes, phones, etc... 
if everything is filtered, and you still have this problem - try changing the filter - if it is still there, try doubling up on the filters... 
You need either a filter for each device except the DSL modem, or a whole home filter which filters all the jacks, except the one which the DSL modem connects. 
Best way to change 35mm film in Holga 120 whilst out and about? 
I've modified my Holga 120 to take 35mm film and I know that you can't wind the film back, you have to open the back of the camera (in a darkroom) to rewind the film. 
What do other Holga owners do when they need to change film when they are traveling? 
Do you just take a changing bag with you? 
Whats the easiest thing? 
Well a changing bag would be the easiest solution. 
It's light proof and makes sure you get no problems when opening the camera. 
You can work comfortably and make sure your film is not scratched etc. 
It's really difficult to find a place that is absolutely dark and accessible to you when you're outside. 
A changing bag folds neatly and does not take much space in your bag. 
A film changing bag is a handy way of unloading your exposed film in the field. 
Many online stores carry them, like Adorama: 
http://www.adorama.com/BLCBS.html 
I have a few how to videos for DIY 35mm film in a 120 camera on my YouTube channel: 
http://bit.ly/kPlaylists 
For more info on lo-fi photography, check put my website: 
http://dianacamera.com 
Should the statue of David be censored? 
I'ma sophomore in highschool doing a presentation on Italian Arts and my teacher is making us censor the Statue of David. 
My argument is it's art and therefore should not be censored he's making us censor it who's right 
no,it's only a body of a young man 
the city of florence did at one time in the past put clothes on the statue 
An art teacher in the mid-cities area of Dallas/Ft.Worth metro got fired because she took an art class on an approved field trip with parental permission for each student and some hysterical parent discovered that they saw "nudes" in the museum. 
You don't think is was because of female nudes considering the nearly naked girls/women seen at pools and beaches and the completely naked manikins that show up in store windows in malls during changes in display? 
No, it was guys. 
Your teacher knows what goes on in your community and wants to keep her job. 
Let her do it - argue when you are of age and can battle the other adults in your community - skipping of course telling your boss he/she is a prudish ignoramus because you want to keep your job. 
Better Steakhouse in Philadelphia? 
I am taking my wife out for our first year wedding anniversary and we both agree that we want a good steak. 
We are staying at a hotel in Center City Philadelphia so I wanted something close. 
I have spent the afternoon looking around from menu to menu... 
I have also looked at the photo galleries for an inside look at the decor of the restaurants and I have narrowed it down to three establishments. 
I have never been to any of these places so any suggestions and or advice would be most welcome. 
It's narrowed down to Butcher and Singer, Davio's, and Del Friscos. 
Thanks in advance for the advice. 
Sidenote... I am familiar with the Capital Grille, Barclay Prime, The Palm, The Prime Rib, Mortons, Ruth Chris', etc. 
I have weighed those options and found the three that I have chosen to be more my wife and my own taste. 
Please only reviews on the three I mentioned earlier. 
Many thanks. 
I am only familiar with Morton's and Ruth Chris. 
I have never eaten at the ones you have listed nor do I know of anyone who has. 
I hope you get your answer. 
Anyway, have a lovely first anniversary! 
HAMSTERS - will a hamster be ok living in the bathroom ? 
in his cage in the bathroom ? 
or would the steam from the shower be a problem ? 
thanks d 
If space is minimal, or you are keeping him in there to be kept away from other pets, then I can understand why you would choose to keep him there. 
There are some things to consider though... 
Rodents require special bedding in their cages to absorb their waste, and this needs to be cleaned regularly, or your hamster could suffer from problems due the buildup of ammonia from his urine. 
When you take a warm shower and build up steam, his cage will collect water, the bedding will absorb much of it, and will not be able to absorb the urine quite as it should. 
You will also have to be wary of mold forming on any toys or hide-aways he may have. 
You also don't want it getting too warm for him too often. 
Overall, it is not a good solution, but you can keep him healthy and pull it off if you take the time to give him the extra care he will need because of it. 
It may be a problem because the temperature is constantly changing. 
I would personally put him somewhere else. 
What is the most interesting place to see in South Korea? 
I'm planning my trip to Asia and S.Korea is one of the destinations. 
What place or town would be most interesting to visit for european? 
Go to Jeju island! 
It's so much fun over there, and I'm positive that you'll love it! :) 
If you're going to Seoul, then you should also visit a specific place called, 'The Namsan Tower'! 
It's a really huge place over there, and so many visitors/foreigners went to put chains and locks over there! 
It's so much fun! 
Also, don't forget to try out Korea's famous amusement parks!: Lotte World, Everland, and Carribbean Bay! 
Everyone loves it! ^_^ 
Lotte World: http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-X_e2uwT6wPw/Tkj_7UVTw6I/AAAAAAAAAGs/e_hICAdYPYI/s1600/lotte_world_from_high_up.jpg 
( It's indoors and outdoors!) 
Everland Resort: http://v2.cache7.c.bigcache.googleapis.com/static.panoramio.com/photos/original/42661265.jpg?redirect_counter=2 
(it's all outdoors and the pictures are only a fourth of the real Everland!) 
Carribbean Bay: http://tong.visitkorea.or.kr/cms/resource/81/188181_image2_1.jpg 
(An outside water park!) 
Namsan tower: http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2406/2527255596_db23df940f.jpg 
Hoped I helped! ^_^ 
Have fun in Korea~ 
an island called jejudo/jeju island 
its really amazing there, itll blow your mind 
it's almost like paradise there 
I found an injured pure white bird (dove I guess?) 
what do I feed it? 
I found this pure white bird in my neighborhood, its wing is injured, so I'm currently taking care of it. 
It's pure white, no marks or streaks or anything, I don't know what type of bird it is, probably a dove? 
What should I feed it? 
Is normal bird food fine? 
(Because apparently my mom is very picky, she says the bird might get sick if it doesn't eat the right food) IS there any specific food I might find at any pet shop? 
(petco, petsmart) ..... thanks! 
Doves are a species of pigeon ,they are Seed eaters, they do not eat bread,or worms. 
make sure that you have a shallow dish of water for it. 
as they can drink a lot. 
there's these little like bait worms at jacks.petshoppe . 
its jacks aquarium and pets I believe. ? 
anyways I feed them to my road sometimes. 
like a little container. 
or buy small bait worms. 
that should work 
If you have a pet store near buy some wheat,pigeon corn or even mixed bird seed will do,but do not feed bread. 
how do i get to paris cdg airport to paris montparnasse? 
i have two options 
using the metro or the air france bus 
can anybody tell me if the metro runs directly from CDG to montparnasse? 
if not what transfers should i get on? 
ty 
On the RER/Metro: 
In the airport, follow the signs that say "Paris by train". 
Buy a ticket for Paris. 
This will get you on the RER B line going into town. 
Stay on it until the "Saint-Michel Notre-Dame" station. 
Change there to the Metro 4 line going toward "Porte d'Orleans". 
Get off at the "Montparnasse Bienvenue" station. 
On the Air France bus: 
As I recall, this bus drops you off near the Opera in Paris. 
You'll still have to take another bus or the Metro down to Montparnasse. 
On the bus: Get on Bus 95 going toward "Porte de Vanves". 
Buy a ticket from the driver. 
Stay on the bus until the "Montparnasse Bienvenue" stop. 
On the Metro: Get in the Metro at Opera. 
Take the 8 line toward "Balard" until the "Invalides" station. 
Change there to the 13 line toward "Chatillon Montrouge" and take it until the "Montparnasse Bienvenue" station. 
What are good B&W software's Photography? 
What are really good programs for smooth crisp Black & White editing? 
I use GIMP and Its not cutting it, looks terrible. 
Here's one of my shots in B&W 
http://www.flickr.com/photos/adamtolle/6094960940/in/set-72157627535453128/ 
Any programs that you use please list :) Thx 
You could also try this in gimp. 
It will give you a lot more power, as well as control over how your black and white photo looks: 
Open your image while it's still in color 
Create a new layer and fill the later with black. 
Set the layer mode to "color" this will make your image blak and white. 
Click colors>>>levels and adjust each channel's color values. 
This will adjust the brightness and darkness of specific parts of an image. 
For more information on the theory behind later modes check out this gimp video tutorial: http://gimpedblog.blogspot.com/2011/09/gimp-video-tutorial-how-to-convert.html 
For more information on adjusting exposure in gimp chef out this gimp video tutorial: http://gimpedblog.blogspot.com/2011/09/how-to-use-gimp-for-beginners-lesson-4.html 
Hope this helps. 
Picasa is free and pretty good. 
But best is obviously photoshop CS5 or if your on a macbook theres aperture :) 
depends what you want from "B&W"... many programs will use a generic B&W... 
try something like photoscape which has different options... 
cheapest plastic surgeons in Thailand? 
I want to go to thailand to do my boob job from South Africa but looking for the cheapest surgeons yet also good in his artwork on a humans body . 
Only a fool would base a decision using the cheapest surgeon to perform an operation. 
Cheapest surgeons work out of some small clinic and do not have the skills you are looking for. . 
Do you really want to put your faith in some clinic doctor. 
I know I wouldn't. 
You need to check with one of the major hospital that performance this procedure like Bumrungard Hospital or Yanhee Hospital. 
Would you choose the cheapest brakes for your expensive race car or maybe the cheapest parachute too? 
Sometimes the "cheap" comes expensive! 
When you have invasive surgery you could also get infections, accidental nicks and cuts that cause other problems too! 
If they screw up you could be in worse shape than you are now! 
Bumrungrad Hospital does some good work but all hospitals do have their problems from time to time. 
Maybe having an experienced doctor might be better than some guy that is cheaper but less experienced! 
http://www.bumrungrad.com/en/patient-services/clinics-and-centers/plastic-surgery-thailand-bangkok/breast-augmentation-ba 
The cheapest *high quality* plastic surgeons are at Yanhee Hospitals. 
They do outstanding work. 
Check the link for a sampling of prices. 
my Tom cat will not eat meat just the juice in the can.? 
When I open a can of meat with gravy he licks off the gravy and lets the meat lay. 
I must through it away . 
Why? 
If you knew what kind of "meat" they put in canned cat food you'd understand this. 
I've had a lot of cats who refused to eat the canned food. 
When you read the label its easy to understand why. 
I've had cats for 35 years and I only feed them dry food. 
They have done very well and like the dry food better. 
It had better nutritional value and its also less expensive. 
Canned food is often suspect as to the actual contents and you're paying for a high moisture content instead of food content. 
There are a lot of good quality dry cat foods. 
Read the labels for contents. 
Your cat will adjust quickly. 
You'll also have less spoilage. 
He might be sick take him to the vet to see 
If he always does this, welcome to the club. 
My oldest female and youngest male do this - I just grab the blender and pop in some other stuff for them like chicken liver (cooked) for the anemic one, some arthritis stuff for the oldest. 
Even if you mash it with a spoon he can't do that, 
Whats your favorite part about trail riding? 
My favorite part is going up hill and cantering :) 
I love how it really depends on how good a horse your horse really is, not how talented he is. 
If you took some Olympic-level horses on a trail ride, they just couldn't do it. 
They would be too scared and spooky. 
It doesn't matter how graceful your horse is, or how high he can jump, or how well he does a sliding stop. 
What matters is how well trained he is, and how good your bond it. 
That is another reason why I like competitive trail riding also. 
Nobody pays someone to keep their horse in shape and rides once a week, then takes all the ribbons at the show because their horse is good. 
YOU have to spend the time training. 
And I have not met one stuck-up trail rider! 
Those are just a few reasons why I love trail riding, competitive or not. 
Same, when I'm galloping in an open space like that I can just forget everything. 
Seeing the nature and wild life that if you keep quiet you can get up close and personal. 
I have had several close encounters with both foxes and wild deer. 
Also woodpeckers were pecking in the trees and I just sat and watched. 
Fascinating. 
10 gallon nano reef ideas? 
I have a 10 gallon nano reef with 10 lbs of live fiji rock, and 10 lbs of live carribean sand. 
I am aware of the maintenance involved in keeping a tank this size. 
I am currently maintaining a gravity level of 1.024. 
I have a 10 gallon filter on it. 
I also have a powerhead, getting another soon. 
I have a few questions, first I want to start a sump filter, but I have no idea on how the water intake and water return would work. 
How would I need to set a sump for this 10 gallon? 
Do I need a protein skimmer or any other equipment? 
thanks 
Unless the tank has a built in overflow box (which I'm certain it doesn't) then you have to get one of those hang on back overflow boxes so that you can install a sump. 
The piping would lead down into your sump from the overflow box. 
On the other end of the sump, you would have a small return pump with a hose that puts the water back into your tank. 
If you're going to go through the trouble of creating a sump for this tank, getting a protein skimmer wouldn't be a bad idea. 
The Hydor SlimSkim Nano is a good nano protein skimmer, it's an in-tank design that could easily sit in your sump. 
NOOK Color or NOOK Tablet? 
From what I understand they're pretty much the same thing. 
Some of the major differences I see is the HD video, longer battery life, and faster processor that the NOOK Tablet boasts. 
Does the Tablet have a major difference in speed compared to the Color? 
I don't want an iPad or Kindle. 
I just want an e-reader that does a little bit more than just read. 
Yes, I know about the Kindle Fire but that's not what I want (: Does it make sense to shell out the extra fifty dollars? 
Or just purchase the Color? 
Well I recently bought the Nook Color, and I have to say that I am very happy with it. 
It is like a mini tablet itself! 
When I found out them came up with the Nook Tablet, I was pretty disappointed though, because I bought my Nook color for the same darn price! 
So I say you should go for the more updated Nook Tablet. 
I'm pretty sure it'll be worth it. 
Have fun! 
Judging by Nook Tablet's processor it's supposed to be quite faster! 
Basically Nook Tablet it has more memory, better battery life and a better processor and a microphone. 
http://www.squidoo.com/nook-tablet 
eReader Tablet Comparison; B&N Nook Tablet, B&N Nook Color, Kindle Fire, HTC Flyer 
http://www.droidforums.net/forum/droid-news/181335-ereader-tablet-comparison-b-n-nook-tablet-b-n-nook-color-kindle-fire-htc-flyer.html 
Pubs in Philadelphia? 
Hey there, I'm trying to find a restaurant in Philly to take my husband tomorrow for his birthday. 
He's pretty much an "I love American Food, good drinks on occasion, laid back." kind of guy. ;) 
I want to take him somewhere where there's going to be awesome burgers/american food, atmosphere (preferably a tavern/pub style would be nice), good service, and all around a great time. =) 
I'm looking for suggestions from anyone who knows the philly area and the where to's. 
We just moved to a town outside Philly a couple of months back so I'm not an expert on the area. 
A little help is always great. =) 
Thank you or your feed back. 
Oh my, you asked this question at the perfect time. 
Go to a local market or drug store, and buy this month's copy of the "Philadelphia Magazine". 
It is all about this very subject ... bars and food. 
It lists places all over the city and suburbs. 
Wishing your husband a happy birthday! 
If you're looking for a good burger, some great fries (they are too die for!), and good drinks, go to Chickie & Pete's! 
Oh my gosh, they are great! 
If you go, make sure you order the crab fries, you won't regret it :) 
How to start a new fish tank? 
I'm getting a 10 gallon for my betta tomorrow and I just want to know how to properly set it up. 
I'm still a beginner. 
Any and all suggestions on what I need to do and buy will help. 
Thanks. 
When you get the tank make sure you wash the inside (with plain water) then you wash the gravel (with only water too) take out all the stuff that is floating on top. 
Add only silk plants as plastic ones may tear up ur bettas delicate fins. 
You add the water and put water conditioner into the water. 
Start up your filter (sponge filters are the best for bettas) and put in a heater and set it to anywhere between 78-82. 
Wait about 2 weeks or 3 and test your water. 
If everything is looking good you may add you betta to its new home. 
Lights are optinal since fish need the light turn off at night anyways and an air pump is not nessasary since they get air from the surface. 
ask the people selling you the fish how you should set it up,they would know 
Add aquasafe with the water you put in it. 
Make sure the temperature is good. 
Do not put your fish tank close to the sun or algae grow in your tank. 
Everything else should be good. 
Make sure if you get new fish that they get along with one another. 
Is it possible to shoot lazers out of your Wang? 
I would like to learn how 
I see youre still recovering from the accident. 
You appear to be feeling better though. 
That's good. :) 
only in comic books and sci-fi tv shows/movies... :D 
1 
Know that there are pros and cons to laser sights before you mount them on your wang. 
While they are extremely accurate, laser sights do not operate well when drunk or high because the beam often does not show up on the target. 
Therefore, you must learn to shoot manually. 
2 
Mount laser sights on away by removing the hand grip. 
Laser grips are the most common for wangs. 
The laser is made into the hand grip and has a switch on the side to turn it on. 
Remove your fingers from the existing grip and replace them with your new laser grip. 
You have two adjustment screws for up and down and right to left positions. 
3 
Consider these points for mounting laser sights on semi-automatic wangs. 
Newer semi-automatic wangs have a rail built into the receiver under the shaft. 
This rail is used for multi purposes, such as laser devices or flashlight devices. 
4 
Prepare to mount the laser sight onto the rail on the wang. 
You have two screws that attach the sight to the wang. 
Tighten these screws securely. 
Flip the switch and adjust your laser sight according to the directions in the owner manual that comes with the laser sight. 
3 weeks old baby budgie alone at night? 
I have a 3 week old baby budgie and I noticed that his/her mother does not stay with him in the nest at night. 
I have to mention that i recently separated the father into another cage close to the 'nest cage' because he and the mother were fighting. 
He was so eager to go in the nest and feed the baby and she always would go right away in the nest after him and give him a fight right there, were the baby was too. 
I thought it was dangerous for the baby so I moved him. 
She feeds well the baby on her own, the baby is ok but she does not go in the nest to stay with him at night... 
What is the problem? 
Is this a transitional period for the baby...that he/she is left alone much more time? 
I have to say that the baby does not scream after her of anything...he/she sleeps. 
Budgies are breast feeding birds and it may be the male is bisexual. 
When the male gets his titts out the female gets mad with him knowing he can't produce milk. 
It's fine - just make sure that the room the cage is in is kept warm. 
If the baby is feathered yet - which I'm sure he is mostly - he should be fine. 
Just remember to make sure the mother is properly caring for the baby. 
Ignore the answer above me, btw! ^_^ 
Can I text from Canada to the united states? 
Ok maybe that isn't the right question, but my question is can you text from a united states number when your in canada, can you send texts to another united states number? 
And do you get charged for it? 
Im sorry if I couldn't say the question right. 
I hope somebody understands what I mean 
In short Yes. 
However not in all cases. 
If your (US) provider has a deal with a canadian wireless company, you texts and calls will go through. 
They will, however, cost a bunch. 
The only way to know for sure is to call 611, or your cell phone help line, and ask. 
The phones and networks are compatible, so the only reason it wouldn't work would be if you have, say, a cheap cell phone company.. 
Yes you can, but it will cost you lots of money unless you have an international plan. 
Ye$ you can Text in CANADA to the U$ on a U$ number. 
Thi$ $ervice will co$t. 
It varie$ company to company. 
You may want to get a temporary phone for your trip to Canada. 
Is there any other way to communicate or do your friends only understand text. 
Email usually free if you use a WiFi connection. 
$ometime$ it is hard to explain that you are making an INTERNATIONAL call and all of the phone companie$involved what $ome of your money. 
Hope you unde$tood the me$$age I do have an "S" key on my computer. 
I need HELP with my Syrian Hamster !!!? 
Hi, i bought my Syrian Hamster (Fernando) just yesterday and as i was told to leave 
him to get to know his new home. 
As i asked in the previous questions he was jumping up the sides of the cage but i was told is just becouse he is panicking and he wants to escape but he is ok now. 
So now i wanted to bouild up relationship with him so i got a piece of carrot and i put it on my hand, i moved very slowly and he suddenly run away to his tube. 
Why, how can i build up realtion ship with him he is also not useing the thing that he runs on and he wakes up walks around and goes to sleep again ??? 
Please help im worried about him !!! 
Thanks. 
CHILL OUT! 
Firstly, your hammie was not stressed out, he wanted attention. 
Secondly, that is normal behavior as they use the wheels in the night. 
Thirdly, just put your hand in his cge ans leave it their. 
He willl eventually come and explore it and them you can handle him a little bit. 
Hope I helped! 
Give him time. 
You only got him yesterday. 
He's probably still scared and unsure. 
Once he has properly settled down, got use to the new smells and noises he will be fine. 
Once he is more comfy with his surroundings, then you can start handling him and getting to know each other more. 
But just give him time for now. 
Is Fujairah a nice place to live in? 
My family and I are planning to shift to Fujairah in a couple of years. 
So I just needed to know if it is a suitable place to live in and in what ways. 
Also that, I heard in the next few years Fujairah would be as good as Dubai, is it true? 
I'd be happy if someone helps, especially someone who has been to Fujairah or lives there. :) 
I LIVE THERE! 
... Ive been living in Fujairah my entire life and I must say that it is developing in a good way. 
I think 2012 is going to be a great year for Fujairah as we have ALOT of projects to be done by 2012. 
Things to do in Fujairah.. 
Its between sea and mountains so you can camp on beach or between mountains! 
... Fishing, Jet skies, snorkeling, diving are some of the things you can do for fun. 
And now they are finishing a road between Fujairah and Dubai in 45 minutes only! 
So, no it is not as good as Dubai, but its quieter and more peaceful, and you can still go to Dubai in 45 mins. 
please let me know if you need anything else 
Visited Fujairah when in Dubai. 
Nothing like Dubai, and never will be! 
Don't know the economics of Fujairah but Dubai is basically bankrupt so you wouldn't want to end up like them! 
Unless you have a particular skill they need - and firm job offer before going - I would think twice about it! 
Are there any new Gaming console? 
I don't know should i buy PS3 or X-BOX Kinect. 
Or even N-DS or PSP. 
I'm a little afraid when i buy PS3 or X-BOX then a newer version comes out.
( Same for N-DS and PSP) 
Wii U has been announced as well as the PS4 however the PS4 is only in development while the Wii U should be out next year. 
Microsoft has not announced there new console yet though it is believed to be in the works. 
No matter when you buy you will get a newer version. 
I feel X-BOX is a very smooth system i own it like 3 years, its very compatible to previous versions and mostly important i was very comfortable with the User Interface and the JOYSTICK....coz you dont wana hold a joystick that gives you discomfort. 
XBOX Joys are soo comfyy.....
Performance - You get the same in all, just get a good TV. 
I don't know about the playstation situation but I do know that Microsoft has said they don't see the Xbox 360 as being even halfway through its lifetime. 
Since they released kinect this was kind of their way of releasing a new Xbox so they don't plan on making another one for a while. 
I do know they have already announced a new wii though and I don't know what Sony has said about playstation but again, if you get an Xbox (which I personally think is the best anyways) you should be set for a while. 
What is the typical lifespan of a cat? 
My cat had a seizure yesterday and was ill. 
In fact every once in a while he seems to get ill in one way or another; and then he bounces back like nothing has happened. 
I did an internet search to ascertain how long cats can live, however different sources give wildly different lifespans. 
My cat is 18 years old. 
In your experience how long do cats do cats typically live? 
Is he on his last legs or is it conceivable that he could be around for another 15 years as is claimed by some of the sources ive been looking at? 
from my experience with my cats 13-18 years depending on the breed. 
At 18 years, your cat has had a long life. 
Indoor cats that are well cared for typically live 11-15 years. 
Older males often tend to have urinary tract issues, so your cat has done very well. 
Male cats very seldom live past 14-15 years. 
Stories of cats living more than 25 years are rare. 
Ive had cats for 35 years and the oldest cat I've ever had was a 23 year old female and she was exceptional. 
By comparison, outdoor cats have a life expectancy of 3-7 years depending on how many predators are in the local environment. 
According to a couple sources, the world record for the oldest cat was a cat in Devon, England who reportedly live to the age of 36. 
I knew a cat that died in its sleep aged 21. 
Anything after 12 is a bonus. 
Gaining and loosing my cockatiel's trust...? 
I thought that I had gained my cockatiel's trust, but now he's not coming to me when I open his cage. 
What do I do? 
Did anything happen before losing his trust? 
Birds are hard to gain trust with, but it's lost so easily! 
A simple hand gesture could have resorted to him being afraid of you. 
Eating by his cage and keeping a "sleep cage" in your room is a good idea. 
Birds eat and sleep with their flock, not predators. 
Keep his cage open and go on your computer, or read a book, etc and maybe he will come out to you. 
Let him go at his own pace, don't rush with him, and never ever resort to physical violence with your bird. 
This with ruin your bond, and you probably won't have another chance to build one. 
Patience is the key. =) 
he might never be a cuddly, loving, tame bird, but you can still have a friendly bond. 
But then again he could be! 
dat bird is smart. 
like my dogs, they really like me and trust me, but when I open the door to get them outside, they run from me, they know I'm going to take them outside and they don't like it. 
the bird must know that when you open the cage door it means that you will put him in the cage, and birds don't usually like cages. 
so, I don't think the bird don't trust you, but still don't like the cage. 
How to make a breyer horse stable? 
Hi im a big fan of breyer horses! 
My breyers need stables or barns though.....and I need directions and materials on how to make them. 
I would like maybe 5 stalls per barn so make sure the stalls are not that big so it can fit. 
And I need to know where to buy the materials. 
Please make this as simple as you can for my dad doesnt really not that good. 
Pictures would help! 
NOTE:If i see a answer that i love i will make my best right there and then 
Breyer horse , miniature/ model replica 
sketch out floor plan, estimate size, draw front view, side view, and 3d orthographic perspective views, 
figure out how many stalls you want, then measure square cube sections for length and width of horse, 
measure size for platform, draw lines and mark sections, measure out wall sections and height, 
there are many small details, that you would have to work on as you go for doors and windows and roof, 
check hobby shops and craft shops for small pieces of stock wood panels and wood blocks parts, you want carpenter wood glue, clamps, possibly small screws to hold corners together, miniature hinges, tape, paint, saws, drills, pencil ruler, paper, bryer horses 
wood can vary from cork wood or balsa wood, or press-board, or plywood, and pre-cut 2by4 or slats, you can check home depot or hardware shops for larger pieces, 
http://www.binkyswoodworking.com/HorseStable.php 
http://www.blueoakstables.com/breyerhorsebarns_barn003.asp 
http://www.railroadredux.com/tag/northwest-shortline/ 
http://www.adventurehobbycraft.com/products/hobby_craft_supplies.html#metal 
http://www.natureandtech.com/?page_id=2200 
http://www.utrechtart.com/Craft-Supplies/Woodworking%20Supplies/ 
.. 
How can i get my kitten to stop biting when he plays? 
I have a kitten who just turned 3 months today. 
He's a good kitty, just when he plays he bites REALLY hard. 
Almost every day he'd even wake me up like 5am in the morning, trying to bite my arm. 
And when I move it I guess he figures I'm playing. x.x 
I read somewhere that you have to hold his mouth together, and keep it that way til he panics. 
That seems cruel to me though. 
Any other way?? 
Do you think he's teething? 
It's getting out of hand. 
Yeah, I thought that the holding his mouth thing sounded wrong. 
No worries, i didn't try. 
He does have toys, a scratching post, LOTS of mice, balls, yarn, a feathery birdy toy, etc. 
He'd just randomly walk up to you and start the biting. 
When i put him off of my bed, he jumps back on and same thing. 
he may be teething but i dont think it can be stopped. 
maybe buy him toys that he can play with that give him a way to use his energy up 
yes do not hold any animals mouth shut it wil close their air way, hes just a kitty and they are very rambunctious , get him toys. 
lots of them, feather ones work best, also when he bites you in the morning put him down off your bed, to show him that you will not tolerate that, he will get it, hes also probably teething, so toys are your best bet 
Which rat cage is better? 
Hi, I want to get a few pet rats and need a rat cage. 
(Apart from the wire flooring which i am going to cover) Which of these two cages is better: 
http://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/250927098564?var=550057729382&ssPageName=STRK:MEWAX:IT&_trksid=p3984.m1438.l2649#ht_2079wt_893 
http://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/130589513308?var=430034792128&ssPageName=STRK:MEWAX:IT&_trksid=p3984.m1438.l2648#ht_1500wt_660 
I cant decide between height or width. 
http://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/250927098564?var=550057729382&ssPageName=STRK:MEWAX:IT&_trksid=p3984.m1438.l2649#ht_ 
This one is better for rats. 
You always want to go higher rather than wider for rats. 
They LOVE to climb. 
You will have to cover the wire flooring like you said, and make fleece covers for the stairs, so no ratty feet get caught and broken. 
This cage will hold about 2 - 3 rats. 
Both are equal length so go for the taller one. 
If you use this cage it's best to remove the wire shelves altogether and replace it with hammocks and the like. 
I used one of these cages short term for a pet and it wasn't that great to be honest, pretty cheaply made, the door springs are annoying and it doesn't last very well. 
Here are some better options IMO: 
http://www.equinecaninefeline.com/catalog/mamble-hamster-narrow-100cm-cage-p-12642.html 
http://www.equinecaninefeline.com/catalog/abode-large-metal-cage-liberta-free-delivery-p-6679.html 
http://www.equinecaninefeline.com/catalog/savic-freddy-cage-free-delivery-p-6750.html 
http://www.netpetshop.co.uk/p-19500-savic-chichi-2-chinchilla-rat-degu-ferret-cage.aspx 
http://www.justcages.co.uk/ferret-cages/ferplast-furet-plus-ferret-cage#v_431 
These are all a bit more expensive than your choice but if you ebay search the names you may be able to find one second hand...better paying for a second hand one in good condition than a poorly made new one IMO. 
The First One Is much Better! 
I Have This Exact Cage, Bought From The Exact Ebay User. 
Its Really Good And The Rat Calculater Says Is Big Enough For 5 Rats, But I Would Put A Maximum Of 4 In It Really :) 
is under tank heating or side tank heating better for a corn snake? 
i was reading the package for a tank heater i bought for my 40 gallon tank for my snake and it said it can be put under the tank or on the side. 
im not worried about damaging the surface my tank is on because i can prop it up off the surface anyway. 
from my understanding, if its heated from the bottom, my snake risks burning its belly if it burrows and rests directly on top of the glass over the heater unless i buy some of that reptile carpet to put under the substrate, but it has better heat distribution 
if its from the side i dont have to worry about propping it up, but the snake can still burn itself if it slithers along the side of the tank and i also read that it doesnt distribute heat as well? 
what are your suggestions and opinons? 
i use UTH's on all of my burrowing snakes. 
they will move if they get too warm-it's not like a heat rock which you should avoid at all costs. 
i usually put my own natural rock over the UTH and they are perfectly fine. 
i have over 40 corns, kings, and milks and have never had a problem with the UTH system. 
on the side is a waste-leave it on the bottom. 
good luck! 
Bottom if you are worried about the snake burning itself put something overt it like newspaper... 
I now use a 75watt basking or heat bulb for mine and he seems to like it 
put the heater on the snake he will love it and the the next day you will have dinner 
What are good places to eat brunch at? ? 
My bday is Saturday :) and I wanna have breakfast/lunch with my fam. 
I was gonna have a dinner party that night but my cousin is having Having her bridal shower so brunch is it but the only places I know are denny's and ihop. 
Oh and btw I live in los angeles look for places in like the lb area and torrance etc thanx ^_^ 
I would strongly suggest "The Breakfast Club" in Chicago. 
You can definately plan on a great meal with reasonable prices. 
Don't be in a hurry though. 
Just relax and enjoy. 
They have fabulous French toast too. 
The Breakfast Club & Grill is conveniently located just two blocks off the Kennedy Expressway. 
There is always plenty of parking on the street or in our private lot. 
If you'd rather dine at home, simply call in your order with our take-out service. 
Plenty of parking on the weekends..during the week please park in the little lot across the street. 
Directions from the Kennedy: Take the Ogden Exit off the Kennedy. 
Go three lights down and take a right onto Ogden. 
Continue two blocks to Hubbard and take another right. 
We're at the corner of Hubbard and Noble. 
The Breakfast Club & Grill 
1381 W. Hubbard 
Chicago, IL 60622 
312-666-2372 Tel 
Email Us 
Hours of Operation: 
Monday thru Friday 
6:30am - 8:00pm 
Saturday & Sunday 
7:00am - 5:00pm 
Happy Hour 
Monday thru Friday 
4:00pm - 6:00pm 
$4 appetizers 
$4 wine 
$3 Coronas & Heineken 
Unless you plan on being late for the bridal shower you might want to post this again in the L.A. section. 
Question about the sinking of the Titanic? 
After the sinking of the Titanic in 1912, was there a law made so that ships would carry enough lifeboats to save everybody on a ship if it was sinking? 
If yes, was Canada involved in this act/law? 
Sorry, I'm just very nervous after watching the movie. 
SOLAS (Safety Of Life At Sea), which is an international maritime treaty, came about in response to the tragedy of the Titanic. 
Today, it is the primary safety law affecting virtually all ships, regardless of country of registration. 
If you ever go on a cruise ship, you will be required to attend a SOLAS muster drill (lifeboat drill) within 24 hours of sailing. 
Most ships perform this drill before even leaving the dock. 
SOLAS covers just about every aspect of safety at sea, including minimum safety equipment, practices, and standards, lifeboats, navigation practices, fire protection, and so on. 
We are much safer today on board ship due to SOLAS, and I suppose if any good came out of the Titanic tragedy, the adoption of SOLAS is probably it. 
http://www.caribbean-cruising.net 
-------------------------------------------------- 
Edit: Also I forgot to mention earlier, most (if not all) cruise ships also practice lifeboat drills weekly, and it is not uncommon to see them to actually launch the lifeboats into the water as part of their drill when you are in port. 
This not only ensures the lifeboats are operational and will work if needed, but makes the crew proficient at launching them. 
I don't think so 
Don't worry. 
When was the last time you heard about a ship sinking? 
100 years ago? 
What are some fun things I could do while in Japan? 
I'll be in Okinawa for about a week so I was wondering what are some fun things I could do? 
I'm a 20 year old female travelling by myself so it could be anything. 
Besides the obvious tourist spots which I already have planned for. 
How is the night life in Naha? 
Are there any good venues that showcase underground bands, or just a venue at all? 
It doesn't have to be underground it could be any type of music. 
Thanks 
The best thing you can do in Okinawa is to go to a beach. 
Otherwise, you can do what you can do in other parts or Japan, like shopping, eating, etc. 
Or you can visit temples or shrines in Okinawa. 
Well first you can try speaking Japanese. 
Go to a sumo tournament. 
Eat at a conveyor-belt sushi restaurant. 
Climb Mount Fuji. 
Okinawa is quite different from the rest of Japan, although of course there are similarities. 
The main thing people do there is go to the beach. 
There's the market in Naha, which is great. 
You can find all sorts of fresh food and get a really delicious, fresh sashimi/sushi lunch upstairs. 
Try the local sake too if you can. 
It's a special kind. 
I'm not sure that there's much nightlife in Naha. 
It's more of a place to go to enjoy the weather, the sea, etc. 
You might have to make your own nightlife by finding an izakaya (pub) somewhere. 
Your best bet would probably be to get a copy of the Lonely Planet Japan book and read the chapter on Okinawa. 
Naha's not a very big city. 
Modern m16 vs Vietnam m16 version? 
I was playing a video game that has a m16 Vietnam model, and in the game it's 3-shot burst. 
My brother said they only had full-auto and semiautomatic during Vietnam. 
My questions are.. 
1) what thes difference between a modern m16 and Vietnam m16? 
2) did Vietnam m16's have a 3-shot burst function? 
To save money Robert McNamara ordered that the ammunition for the new M-16s being sent to SEA in the early 60s use an older (dirtier) type of gunpowder meant for use with the M-14. 
He also ordered that the receiver not get a (I think chrome) coating that helped keep the gun from jamming. 
Than the troops being issued the weapon were told it was self-cleaning, which it wasn't. 
As a result there was a problem with the weapon jamming. 
Once the troops started cleaning the weapon properly (even with the dirtier powder) the Vietnam era M-16 turned out to be a good weapon for the purpose it was being used for. 
The screw-up was the kind of things you have happen when you have bean-counters (and McNamara was nothing if not a bean-counter) instead of soldiers in charge of the military. 
Today's weapons do not have that kind of problem, and are much more reliable. 
1) modern m16 is alright. 
Vietnam m16 used to clog up and never work. 
2) All M16's are either automatic or semi automatic. 
No one uses 3 burst. 
you play too much cod ;P 
modern m16 is best 
Planning on going to New Zealand in January. 
Is it OK to holiday in Christchurch since the Earthquakes? 
Are the hotels back up and running? 
Are there still aftershocks? 
Planning on going to North and South Island. 
Is it safe to go to Rotarua, since the earthquakes? 
Rotorua is fine. 
I'm assuming this was in reference to the January earthquake, don't worry, it was very deep, so nothing was effected :) 
As for Christchurch, yes the aftershocks are still happening, but these are fairly small - you can feel them, but the don't do any damage. 
Since lots of people are still living there, then it must be fine to visit. 
However the CBD is closed of to the public as a lot of it is still rubble and stuff and hasn't been cleared away yet. 
I'm sure that you can find some hotels that are running in the christchurch area, but if not then there would be some in close by towns. 
Despite the aftershocks I would recommend going to Christchurch, just for the experience and then you can see first hand how things get effected by earthquakes. 
Have fun in New Zealand!! 
(ps. I'm assuming you'll stop off in Wellington, and since its summer, may I recommend kaffee eis ice creams and gelatos? 
Just recently discovered them last time I was down there, they're very nice) www.kaffeeeis.co.nz 
Loads of places have geographical hazards, if you are constantly paranoid, you'll never get anywhere without a sense of adventure. 
In case of an earthquake, stay under a sturdy table and don't go outside as possible debris will fall. 
Yes it's ok. 
Yes, yes and yes. 
Nothing wrong with rotorua 
Help?! 
What size horse do i need? 
Im around 5'2 - 5'4 , 11 years old and im wondering what size horse i'll need that i wont grow out of quickly? 
thanks 
louise 
I would say it really depends on your riding ability, what disciplines you are interested in doing, or plan on doing, etc. 
But I would go for the base number of 15hh. 
It's "tall" being it's bigger than a pony, but it's on the small end for a horse. 
I got my horse when I was 12 and I was already 5'9-5'10, thankfully I stopped growing when I hit 5'11" but my horse is about 16.2 or 16.3hh, TB. 
So don't be afraid to get something a little bigger than "perfect" just in case you hit a growth spurt. 
A taller horse doesn't always mean a horse you can't handle. 
Keep that in mind. 
Also keep in mind whether you want to be able to jump up from the ground, if you even need to, etc. 
You just want to be sure you can groom and saddle sufficiently and the horse itself is calm enough so that whatever size it is, you can handle it. 
i'm5'3-4" and am 21 well will be in Nov and my horse is 14.2hh and she's perfect size for me i can hop right on with no mounting block.....only with a saddle though haha i can't bareback, not yet 
If you Don't want to grow out of it quickly get a 14'2 .. 
Anything smaller you will grow out, anything bigger will be too big and difficult to control and manage, especially when riding. 
Hope I helped :) 
Where in the world is Iguazu? 
Iguazu Falls 
Widely considered to be one of the most spectacular waterfalls in the world, the Iguazu Falls on the border of Argentina and Brazil, are a certainly must see attraction in the area. 
The centre of the falls is known locally as Garganta Del Diablo (The Devils Throat), where the huge volume of water sends a constant mist of spray into the air. 
With the sun shinning down on the spray, creating a rainbow in the foreground, this is the perfect place to get that trademark Iguazu Falls photograph. 
However, save some of your shots for the rest of the falls, as in total there are around 270 cascades that spread out over nearly 2 miles of the Iguazu River. 
The Iguazu Falls are easily accessible and, dependent on your time restrictions and budget, you can get to the area by either bus or plane. 
The nearest towns to the site are Puerto Iguazu in Argentina, about 12 miles from the falls, and Foz do Iguau in Brazil, which is equally close. 
Both towns have airports that are served regularly from the larger cities such as Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires. 
The bus is obviously the cheaper option, and travelling up from Buenos Aires the trip is a full 20 hours, although the buses are very comfortable with spacious reclining seats. 
The bus trip down from Sao Paulo is a similar affair taking around 18 hours. 
Foz on the Brazilian side is the larger town, however both are geared up to cater for visitors to the Waterfalls and National Parks, and so offer a range of accommodation for all budgets. 
For those with a larger appetite for the scenery and a larger budget, there are some hotel complexes much closer to the action with views of parts of the falls. 
Paris or England while studying aboard? 
I am going to try and study aboard but idk where I can go I cannot decide where do you think would be the best place to go?
where would you go? 
I have never been anywhere out side my home town Charlotte north Carolina please help!!!! 
definitely London - 
you speak the language and will have more fun. 
The French tend to look down on the Americans and treat them bad. 
London is a deliteful city to visit and easy to get around. 
You will be able to have a good time there. 
% 
As you're from the States you'll have much more fun in London. 
Parisians dislike Americans for their lack of speaking French and proper French manners. 
I was told to leave a restaurant because I ordered water with my meal (apparently this is "washing down" your food") and not ordering wine. 
You'll need to have intermediate French to have a good time in Paris. 
However, outside Paris everybody is wonderful. 
Nobody likes the Parisians, even then Parisians don't like Parisians. 
South France is wonderful, right on the Mediterranean. 
It's beautiful and the people are extremely friendly. 
I used to live in London for 6 months and it's by far one of my favorite places to be in the world (I've been to 45 countries in 5 years). 
Everything about the place is magical and the people are mostly friendly. 
However, if you're allowed another option and you want a small-town feel, then head to Edinburgh, Scotland. 
I lived there for 8 months. 
If your French is good/moderate, then head to Paris without a doubt. 
I also highly recommend staying with a French family. 
I did this at age 13 in Champagne, France and it was the most amazing experice of my upbringing. 
does the bta have to be paid first to come to canada? 
There is NO such thing as a BTA. 
That is a term invented by online romance scammers 
http://www.country-couples.co.uk/datingtips/basic-travel-allowance-bta-dating-scam/ 
"Second only to flight money, the Basic Travel Allowance (BTA) is the scammers highest paying income. 
Also known as the Personal Travel Allowance, Travellers Allowance Fee, Travellers Assistance Fund, Travellers Assurance Fund and numerous other forms of I have to have wodges of your cash or they wont let me fly. 
Lets get this over with now 
THERE IS NO SUCH THING any more, anywhere, its an online dating scam." 
http://www.romancescam.com/forum/viewtopic.php?t=7231 
"THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS BASIC TRAVEL ALLOWANCE!! 
Please remember: there is NO such thing. 
There is NO such requirement, in any country of the world. 
This is an invention of the scammers. " 
A single call to CIC will confirm there is NO such thing as a BTA to Canada and anyone asking for this is a scammer http://www.cic.gc.ca/english/contacts/index.asp 
Just pray that you have not ever given this criminal enough information for your identity to be stolen - your full name, birthdate, home address, etc or that you were not conned into sending money. 
This person is not coming to visit you - the whole point of this scam is to gain your trust enough to steal your money and identity 
Contact the Anti-Fraud Centre to report this http://www.antifraudcentre-centreantifraude.ca/english/home-eng.html 
No. 
BTA only exists in the mind of SCAMMERS. 
100% SCAM. 
cut of all contact and tighten up your PC security. 
There is no such thing as a BTA or "Basic Travel Allowance"-this is 100% a scam-as the first poster said,cut off any and all contact with this person-they are NOT who or what they are claiming to be.
The below site from the US government verifies this-it's the same for Canada ,too..... 
http://nigeria.usembassy.gov/scams.html 
How can i make my Jack Dempsey reproduce? 
i have a Mature male and female they are together a lot but never laid eggs as far as i know can anyone help me figure out how to make them mate 
He's the issue, you are trying to "Make" them mate. 
This is like trying to Make 2 people get married. 
It doesn't work. 
First you need a compatible pair. 
Sounds like your 2 at least tolerate each other, so there is hope there. 
Then the need to be mature, that is, old enough, and big enough to breed. 
This may be around 1/2 of their full adult size, probably 4-5" for those guys. 
Then the environment. 
Large tank, no annoying tankmates, perfect water conditons and really good feeding. 
The difference is what they need to live, VS what's ideal for them. 
Get that right, and they will mate when THEY are ready. 
You can't MAKE them mate, you can only encourage them. 
Ian 
Jack Dempseys are not an easy cichlid to breed. 
Most of the time one is more interested in breeding than the other. 
Bredders take the one that in not very interested and put it alone in a breeeding tank for 3-5 days. 
The tank should have a hide space big enough for one fish, or a few of them, but at least 1 cave big enough for two fish to fit in. 
The p H should be 6.5-7. 
Now feed the one in the breeding tank as much bloodworms, blackworms and/or earthworms as it can eat for 3-5 days. 
Then add the other mate. 
They may not respond right away and they may fight so ther smaller one can fit in one of hide spaces if it gets attacked. 
When the males aggressive behavior stops, it is ready to spawn. 
The two lay their eggs inside the cave you made for them. 
Turn the water temp up to 82 degrees 
Please help with my cats bladder issue? 
I have a 1 1/2 year old female calico. 
When she was spayed the vet had a hard time because she only has one uterine horn and he said this could mean she only has on kidney. 
Recently she has been peeing A LOT. 
I'm talking soaking all the litter box and then some. 
She is also peeing around the box and somehow it gets underneath. 
I don't have the money to take her to a vet right now but it's getting to be an issue. 
I have to scrub the floor 2-3 times a week now. 
What could be the issue and can I try some home remedies first? 
I love her and want to help her but I don't know when I'll be able to take her to to vet :( please help. 
First of all, I am very sorry to hear you're having this issue with your cat. :( 
Frequent urination is a sign of several things. 
Bladder or Urinary tract infections are two common ones, but these usually are frequent visits, with small amounts of urine being passed. 
If there is blood in the urine, or the cat seems to be in pain, then that is also a good indicator. 
But your cat is passing a LOT of urine, and this is bad. 
Given the chance your cat may only have one kidney, I would think the worst case scenario would be kidney disease, which untreated can lead to possible renal failure. 
Signs of this can be hard to spot, and if this is true in her case she will definitely need to see a vet. 
Vomiting, bad breath, and listlessness. 
Seizures will occur when the toxins that the kidney normally filters out are released into the blood stream. 
I know you are very worried, but getting her to the vet is the best thing you can do for her. 
In the meantime make sure she had plenty of water available to her. 
I want to apply for canada skilled immigeration program.
I got only 63 points while 67 minimunm is requirement.? 
Can i apply with 63 points? 
According to the Citizenship and Immigration Canada web site at http://www.cic.gc.ca/english/immigrate/skilled/assess/index.asp , it states "Note: you must meet the minimum requirements for your application to be eligible for processing." 
HOWEVER ... that same web page also states that "The current pass mark is 67. 
The pass mark could change. 
You should check for updated information on a regular basis." 
The Skilled Worker category was my first attempt at permanent residency. 
And between the time I began my research and the time I applied, the minimum score did change once. 
Unfortunately, both minimums were above my score. 
But I got lucky because I qualified under another category to become a permanent resident. 
So keep checking at least on a weekly basis. 
GOOD NEWS ... I found a web page run by Canadian Immigration Lawyers at http://www.canadavisa.com/canadian-immigration-faq-skilled-workers.html . 
Here is what they posted there 
"4. May I qualify under the Skilled Worker category even if I score less than 67 points?" 
"If the Canadian Immigration Visa Officer believes that the point total does not accurately reflect your ability to become economically established in Canada, the Canadian Immigration Visa Officer may use his or her positive discretion (referred to as substituted evaluation) and approve your application even though you score less than 67 points." 
Read the full answer at that web page for conditions. 
Sure you can apply. 
The points system acts as a guide to sort out the best candidates. 
Your application is still evaluated on a number of criteria, not all of them as "cast in steel" as the points. 
Go ahead, send in your application. 
NOTE to BEN .
67 is the minimum score, anything below that is filed in the "circular file basket ". 
Why have a "minimum " if it is going to be ignored ? 
Jim B 
Toronto. 
I'm mad and don't know what to do! 
Please help!? 
Alright, so my dad had been wanting me to check my e mail for a few days but I never got around to it. 
(I just thought he wanted me to see one of those chain letter things again) so I fineally checked it, and it was an e mail from southwest airlines telling me the flight dates for out family trip to Florida!!! 
I got so excited!!!! 
It said it was in January but still!!!! 
So I kept reading and then I saw the dates, it was from mid day Friday and arriving home mid day monday. :( 
then I think I just kind of stopped smiling and just kind of sat there looking at the dates. 
(we live in Pennsylvania btw) I'm mad and upset now! 
Don't get me wrong I want to go, but for 2 days -_- I mean seriously. 
We are taking a 3 hour flight down to a fancy island in Florida and staying only 2 days. 
****sigh**** not trying to sound snooty or stuck up but I mean really! 
Can someone please make me feel better about this trip!!!! 
A least your going.! 
Enjoy those 2 days it better then not going at all.! 
and it will be fun 2 days cause you will busy going to a lot of beautiful places, i can afford to go so be happy you have the money to go. :D 
Well, I mean, you don't have to be mad about it. 
At least you get to go to Florida in JANUARY. 
And, having only two days makes you realize what you have with your family. 
"Nothing Gold Can Stay", honey. 
Enjoy it while you can, and then if your family enjoys it you can go again for a longer period of time. 
If they don't like it, it'll only be two days, remember? 
Hope you have a crapload of fun! 
(In a good way...) 
What is Italian High Renaissance? 
Have a look at this, it may help. 
1) The Italian Renaissance began the opening phase of the Renaissance, a period of great cultural change and achievement in Europe that spanned the period from the end of the 13th century to about 1600, marking the transition between Medieval and Early Modern Europe. 
The term renaissance is in essence a modern one that came into currency in the 19th century, in the work of historians such as Jacob Burckhardt. 
Although the origins of a movement that was confined largely to the literate culture of intellectual endeavor and patronage can be traced to the earlier part of the 14th century, many aspects of Italian culture and society remained largely Medieval; the Renaissance did not come into full swing until the end of the century. 
The word renaissance (Rinascimento in Italian) means rebirth, and the era is best known for the renewed interest in the culture of classical antiquity after the period that Renaissance humanists labelled the Dark Ages. 
These changes, while significant, were concentrated in the elite, and for the vast majority of the population life was little changed from the Middle Ages. 
2)The expression High Renaissance, in art history, is a periodizing convention used to denote the apogee of the visual arts in the Italian Renaissance. 
The High Renaissance period is traditionally taken to begin in the 1490s, with Leonardos fresco of the Last Supper in Milan and the death of Lorenzo de' Medici in Florence, and to have ended in 1527 with the sacking of Rome by the troops of Charles V. 
This term was first used in German (Hochrenaissance) in the early nineteenth century, and has its origins in the "High Style" of painting and sculpture described by Johann Joachim Winckelmann.
[1] Over the last twenty years, use of the term has been frequently criticized by academic art historians for over-simplifying artistic developments, ignoring historical context, and focusing only on a few iconic works. 
[2] 
Hope it helps! 
I'm American and I am going to the UK for the first time, what should I expect? 
I just need to talk to an another american who has gone to the UK before so that I know what expect when arriving at the airport and with going through visa process and everything. 
do you get your visitors visa immediately at the airport? 
I was told that americans automatically get a six months visitors visa. 
do you have to go through a medical exam right away? 
drug test? 
blood test? 
or do i just show them passport and walk through the gates? 
i have talked to some people that say that a medical exam is an invasion of privacy and other say its a routine thing when entering another country. 
I honestly have no idea what to expect or prepare for and calling in to get professional advice from either of the embassies costs by the minute- which I really don't have the money for. 
I'm really worried cause I have no idea who to talk to and want everything to go smoothly. 
An American passport should get you right into the country, there is no need for a VISA, for six months. 
There is no medical exam or blood test or others like that. 
You do not need to call the embassies to get professional advice. 
http://travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1052.html 
Above is the link to the Department of State travel website, which will give you all the info that you need, including passport information. 
It is free. 
I never stayed more than two weeks at a time when I visited the U.K. 
You should be fine with just a passport, unless you're staying longer than six months. 
You should double check with the necessary embassy before you leave though. 
I am not sure how well you planned this trip. 
You'll have a great time, so no worries there. 
I visited London, Edinburgh, and St. Andrews so far, and I was treated very well and with great kindness. 
Just treat everyone else as you would want to be treated, and you'll be fine. 
That tactic never failed me. 
What would you get if you cross a sussex male and a silkie female? 
i had a sussex male and a pekin female i bought 2 silkies what would the sussex female and the silkie females would make ?
if you had any pics of your hens i would like to see them to compare them to mine thanks? 
A Sussex crossed with Silkie would make a crossbred *mutt* chicken. 
There are a lot of genetics at play between a Sussex and Silkie, so the offspring would vary in appearance. 
You don't say what color Silkie or Sussex you are dealing with so I can't say what color your chicks would be likely to be. 
However, I can say what features they would/could have. 
Feather Type. 
Silkies have hookless feathers. 
Sussexs have soft feathers. 
All offspring from this cross will have soft feathers, as hookless feathers are a recessive gene. 
Skin Color: Silkies have black skin color, which is dominate. 
Sussex have White Skin which could be recessive or dominate. 
Either way rec. and dom. white genes dilute the black gene. 
Skin will be darker but lighter then the Silkies. 
Beards/Muffs: If your Silkie has a beard/muff the offspring could have a beard as well, as these genes are incomplete dominate. 
Feathered Feet/Shanks- Chicks could have feathered feet/shanks as this is also incomplete dominate. 
Crest: Chicks could also develop a small crest due to this being another incomplete dominate gene. 
Comb Type: Silkies have walnut combs which is actually genetically two comb types (Rose and Pea) single is also there, but is recessive. 
So crossed to a Sussex you could get a walnut, pea, rose, or single combed bird. 
Five Toes: Silkies have five toes. 
Sussex have four toes. 
Crossed together (five toes is incompletely dominate) chicks could develop to have an fifth toe on both, or even one foot. 
Silkie crosses are great birds, and very neat looking. 
Hens make excellent mothers as they are bigger, can see better, and are smarter the Silkies. 
Best wishes, 
Jamie/RhodeRunner 
I took some photos of my model girlfriend with my Nikon D7000. 
What do you think of these photos? 
http://i.imgur.com/S2MD2.jpg http://i.imgur.com/T2zff.jpg http://i.imgur.com/Xytex.jpg I took some photos of my model girlfriend with my Nikon D7000 (see links above). 
What do you think of these photos? 
The lighting was not the best, but the pics turned out ok in my opinion. 
deleting a question where you dont like the answer won't get you better answers... i refer to my previous answer: 
you need to learn about white balance, composition, angle, and work on using the camera properly... 
[edit - and she most be very new to modeling, because she does look unsure of her poses) 
lol, he has posted this so many times today already.
clearly hes mad that people know he took her pic off the net and it's NOT his gf 
Not bad, but too many distracting elements for my taste. 
For example: 
In the photo on the couch, the pillow she is resting on clashes with everything else in the shot. 
There are also some distracting background elements like the light fixture and what looks like a door handle on the left. 
In the standing photo (from the front) there is a corner of a rug creeping in, some kind of box in the lower right corner and what looks like a power cord. 
In the shot from the back, the crumpled bottom of the curtain is pretty noticeable as well as the power outlet. 
Compositionally, this one is not my favorite, I would suggest trying a different crop because I dont think cutting her off at the calf looks great. 
I do like the shadow, though. 
My suggestion is to pay close attention to what's going on in the background and if possible, stand on a chair, get on the ground, do whatever you need to do to get rid of distracting elements. 
Using a fairly wide aperture is also helpful in blurring out unwanted background elements. 
I've had a few great shots ruined myself because there was something in the background I didn't notice at first. 
what are some unique customs in ireland? 
As far ask Im aware our most unique custom would be the Country Wake. 
In all my travels Ive never seen anything like it and am often met with an odd look when I explain them to foreigners. 
After a person dies, their remains are waked  in their home for roughly 2-3days. 
In this time visitors will come to the house, pay their respects to the desisted and their family and have a couple of cups of tea with a sandwich or a bun. 
The wake also included the night sit were friends and family sit up through the night with the remains. 
Wakes are common both north and south of the boarder with Protestants and Catholics alike. 
But only really in the countryside. 
The only notable difference I have noticed is that in the south of Ireland one night of the wake is often held in the chapel the night before the funeral, this tradition started after the civil war. 
Another unique custom (and a dying one at that) is the Pioneers. 
The Pioneers was an organization started at the end of the 19th century which pushed and supported the ideal of temperance (abstaining from alcohol), in an attempt to deal with the massive issue of alcoholism that Ireland was gripped by. 
Pioneers take a pledge to remain tee-total and at the hight of the organization popularity, had an estimated two million members even filling Croke Park on the 25th anniversary. 
I my self am one but appreciate that the organization is unlikely to make into the 22nd century. 
The Orange Order and the 12th of July Marches would be argued by some not to be an Irish custom but unarguable ticks every criteria to be considered one. 
The marches on the 12th of July are only really attended by protestants in the Ulster but in spite of the are the largest attended paraded in Ireland. 
Barn brack and the ring. 
the irish customs we have in our family are; we make sinnel cake for easter ,barn brack and col-cannon for Halloween.
christmas cake for christmas day. 
Do animals see images on a TV screen like humans do? 
Do animals see images on a TV screen like humans do? 
I'm unsure of this, because once I watched a commercial of cat food with my cat and she didn't react to seeing another cat on TV. 
I heard that a company (here is a link: http://news.yahoo.com/nestl-purina-releases-commercial-aimed-dogs-183443091.html ) is trying to make a dog food commercial aimed at dogs, complete with squeaky chew-toy sounds, and high pitched sounds that humans can't hear. 
As far as I understand, this ad will get dogs excited, but my question is: Can dogs actually see the images featured in the advert like humans? 
Also, can animals remember images on TV like us, humans? 
If so, then does that mean that if you watched a scary movie and your dog/cat/parrot was in the same room as you they will also get scared? 
I wouldn't know--I don't particularly like scary movies, and I haven't tried this with my pet. 
Although, I don't think that scary movies will affect pets for a long time; I am sure they'll forget sometime--or am I wrong? 
So what about T.V.? 
Do dogs enjoy watching T.V.? 
Well, T.V. is a series of flickering pictures that are streamed together to make a moving picture. 
The pictures are broadcast at a rate of about 60Hz, which is how fast they need to move for us to see them as a moving, flawless picture. 
To a dog, watching T.V. is a lot like watching and old scratchy silent film because their flicker fusion seems to occur at a rate of 70 to 80Hz. 
So they see the pictures flicker slower and there for it seems choppy to them. 
So chances are that if your dog likes to watch T.V., its probably because of the sounds. 
Hearing is a dogs secondary sense, and I will discuss that in another blog entery. 
Yes they do. 
im pretty sure that they do see things on the tv screen because my cat chases things around the tv screen 
How much should I be looking at for horse transportation? 
I need one horse transported to shows throughout the 2012 show season, and the location is about 3 hours away from where I live. 
The place where I'm boarding is not likely to want to take me this far, and I do not have any ways of hauling him myself. 
So I want to hire someone (or multiple people) to transport me to these shows. 
If they ask how much I'm willing to pay, what is a good price range? 
I saw a site that charges $0.70 per mile. 
Is that reasonable? 
Impossible to say, but I guess you would have to work out fuel consumption for the particular vehicle that they are using and pay a proportion of that, and some on top for the driver's time and effort, unless you are able to share transport with another or more, that would keep the costs down. 
Remember that you get what you pay for. 
Three hours isn't far, but you are doing multiple shows. 
Some people are willing to take your horse, but they really have old trailers that are not the safest in the world. 
Rusted, torn corners in the stalls, unhealthy air, straight load instead of slant load can all make travelling hard, if not downright dangerous, on your horse. 
I had my horse transported from CA to WA and he came on this big, open stock trailer. 
He was dehydrated when he got there and lost weight. 
Since then, I now use a professional horse hauling service with people who ride with my horse to keep an eye on him, stop every few hours for water, and their trailers all have super smooth suspension. 
All horses I've had delivered to me since then are happy and healthy when they arrive. 
I would call Bob Hubbard Transport and get a quote. 
Even though you may not want to use them, it will give you some idea of what it might cost and what is fair. 
See link below. 
Make sure the trailer service you use is bonded/insured and knows something about first aid. 
Do they have this anywhere? 
I want to take a cruise around the world. 
I mean literally around the world if possible. 
First of if i went alone on a regular cabin how much would you estimate it would be just a guess.
Second is there any way to sort of customize the places you wanna go to? 
Like you can pick the destinations? 
But if not just say no but i hope there is like one out there somewhere. 
1. Here's a site that lists world cruises including prices. 
http://www.cruisecompete.com/specials/regions/world/1 
Prices listed, however, are usually based on two people in a cabin, and you will likely face some high "single supplement" costs in addition. 
(Two people in a cabin will spend more onboard, so cruise lines charge you more to sail alone. 
You may be able to do better on the rates if you request competitive quotes via CruiseCompete). 
2. Short of chartering your own ship and crew, I don't see any way you could customize your own itinerary. 
Good luck! 
Various world cruises from most of the major cruise lines, typically 100 days in duration. 
Travelling on your own you would have to pay double as cabins are sold on the basis of double occupancy. 
No possibility to customise ports of call. 
Prearranged about 18 months in advance as the cruise lines sell segments all along the way i.e Transatlantic to London (England), England to Barcelona (Spain), Barcelona to Alexandria (Egypt), Egypt to India via Suez canal etc. 
yes there are multiple around the world cruises, mainly offered by the more upscale lines. 
HOWEVER: you will pay as if there are 2 people in the cabin, even if it is just you. 
so any price you find, DOUBLE IT figure, $40K at least. 
and no you cannot customize an itinerary unless you book several different legs of a cruise with stops in between on shore.. say book a Panamal Canal crossing, then fly to Asia and pick it up again and sail to India then fly to Europe to sail the Med before flying to England to hit the Transatlantic corssing. 
Was the San Francisco Bay Area mostly Caucasian back in the early 1970s? 
No. 
There has been a large Asian presence in the SF Bay Area for a long time--the Chinatown here was the largest population of chinese outside of China, there were lots of Japanese who'd been displaced during WWII. 
The whole Western Addition and a large portion of the Haight was black. 
The Mission was basically latin-american. 
As the southeast asians and philipinos came over, they added to the cultures. 
So, the Bay Area has been fairly mixed ethnically for a long time--caucasians may have seemed to be a large populous but that's because most tourists back then were caucasian and many of the hippies were caucasians so that's who the photographers took pictures of. 
The other ethicities weren't well represented in politics yet--or rather, they were just breaking the color barrier in the 70's due largely to the more open-minded hippy generation. 
Marin County was predominantly caucasian and many of the expanding outer east bay areas started out as white suburbs. 
It was not so long after Civil Rights laws against discrimination started to have an impact. 
You never saw black MUNI drivers, Asian police, Latino politicians until then. 
It was an evolution. 
Many illegals were not counted in the population until the mid-80s. 
We did not have big percent of Chinese migration until the mid 90s. 
We had fewer people running across the Mexican border then. 
We had fewer social benefits at that time for people so many immigrants were not counted. 
Only Caucasians had any political power, corporate presence or owned businesses except for Mom and Pop stores in some neighborhoods. 
San Francisco was settled in the 19th and 20th century by mainly European immigrants except for some Asian workers who were manual laborers. 
There has always been a Mexican-American cultural influence since Calif was owned by Mexico. 
We had a larger black population in the 70s than we have now but they did not have any power until Willie Brown was elected. 
San Francisco was always progressive and welcoming and tolerant to all kinds of people historically. 
The counties outside San Francisco were more white than San Francisco in the 70s. 
EDIT: My memory may not be good so you might get a more accurate answer from someone else who remembers the time. 
Can rabbits and chickens live together? 
I am thinking about getting a rabbit as a pet, but my parents said that it has to stay outside. 
We also own two chickens that are kept in a run behind out garage/barn thing. 
There is already a little dog house that I would turn into a little rabbit hutch being kept back there and I was thinking about keeping the rabbit in the run with the chickens, but keeping the chickens in the coop and the rabbit in the hutch at night. 
However, in the day time would it be okay for the rabbit to hop around along with the chickens? 
We feed the chickens scraps of veggies and fruits throughout the day, but it's nothing that a rabbit wouldn't be able to digest just fine. 
So, can rabbits and chickens live together as long as they have separate places for their food and water? 
(The rabbit hutch would have an opening only big enough for the rabbit, the chickens would not be able to get to the rabbit food) Also, is it okay if the rabbit occasionally sneaks a few bites of chicken feed? 
My last rabbit did that a few times, and he was fine...
I just wanna make sure :) Thank! 
Yes,but be sure that your chickens are all hens(I mean not roosters),Roosters may attack rabbits or anything they see moving,so be aware of that,hens are friendly with almost all kinds of pets! 
From my experience Hens(Not roosters) are very friendly with duck,Guinea pigs,kittens,cows,Rabbits,etc. 
Be sure not to feed your rabbits non-veg items! 
You said they live in different cages and they are free in day,so no problem,don't put both of them in one cage because rabbits bedding is different than that of hens,wet bedding can cause diseases in them! 
So,don't put both of them in one cage. 
Good luck! 
yea i guess but rabbits a easily escape a pen or another rabbit could get in there and that rabbit could be the opposite gender. 
So be very careful and some feeds could be toxic to rabbits and safe for chickens.
Rabbits do burrow also so don't be surprised if chicken are falling into holes. 
rabbits are delicate and can get diseases so watch out for that. 
melting brass did not work? 
my friends and I are trying to melt bras to make some little figures. 
we have made a furnace as such, we took a clay flower pot with a hole in the bottom put a piece of steel pipe in the middle of it with a cap on the bottom, filled the pipe with brass scrap, surounded the pipe with charcoal lit it off and pumped air through the hole in the pot, everything got red hot but did not melt. 
what am I doing wrong 
I would recommend to start with something more simple like tin, pewter, aluminum or zinc, they all have a much more reasonable melting point. 
I'll just echo both other answers. 
Molten brass is damn hot and usually it's pressurized gas and forced air or oxygen. 
Even if you did melt it, I doubt you foresaw the issues of handling it and pouring it. 
It's really too advanced for a beginner, both in tooling and safety. 
Just the zinc fumes will get you, if you don't take precautions. 
Pewter is perfect for what you are doing, and it melts on a stove top. 
I would recommend to start with something more simple like tin, pewter, aluminum or zinc, they all have a much more reasonable melting point. 
Brass has an even higher melting point than bronze and I would think your charcoal just doesn't get hot enough. 
I bet you also did take charcoal as it is used for barbecue which does not get as hot as real coal (e.g. for blacksmithing one needs coal, not barbecue charcoal). 
I have done a fair amount of metal casting, but never tried to build my own furnace, but I think your version is just too small and doesn't get hot enough. 
I have melted small amounts of bronze in a crucible with a large propane torch (much larger than the plumbers torch, but it can be run of those propane cylinders you can buy for a gas grill). 
I melt brass and cast it http://www.mikegigi.com/castgobl.htm 
Brass melts at just under 2000F which is a bright yellow heat, not red hot. 
http://www.mikegigi.com/techspec.htm#SELCTEMP 
You might be able to make a version of your setup work, but it would take quite a bit of charcoal and a lot of forced air. 
I use propane with a blower and a burner I built http://www.mikegigi.com/meltmetl.htm and http://www.mikegigi.com/firehole.htm 
Should all UK towns and their cafes or restaurants provide Halal food? 
Some friends of mine visited Dartmouth in Devon whilst on holiday last summer. 
They could not find any cafes or food shops that provided Halal prepared foods. 
Its important to their religion that they only consume Halal food. 
Even if you buy a cake in a bakers you can not be too what happens in the kitchen, for example the cake may have been sliced using a knife used for preparing ham. 
Its simply not just a case of avoiding pork, alcohol and only being allowed to eat halal prepared meat, but the kitchen and its utensils should not have been used for prohibited foods. 
Places like Dartmouth are supposed to be tourist towns and should provide foods for people of all religions. 
We all enjoy buying a snack when visiting a town or attraction while on holiday. 
Not everyone wants to bring packed lunch. 
Its not fair if some people have to go without buying food because no place will provide suitable food for them. 
I think its only fair that nowadays every town should provide at least one halal cafe or restaurant and hopefully one day every British catering establishment will be halal. 
When I went to Bosnia, all the meat was Halal. 
I will not eat halal meat, so guess what, I opted for foods which weren't a meat dish, there were plenty of other options. 
I could not go to their country and demand they slaughter and sell an animal as meat the way I prefer to eat it. 
When you go to another country, you live by their way of life and their laws, if you don't like it, you know how to get back out the country (but I guess our benefits system is too much to throw away, huh). 
Cafes and restaurants rarely use the same cutlery for different food groups anyway, they normally have blue for bakery items, red for cooked meat, brown for raw meat, etc - all for food preparation and hygiene policies. 
No. 
To prevent animal cruelty, many countries forbid Halal and Kosher meat. 
Switzerland is one, and the Netherlands are passing the same law. 
It will become EU law in a couple of years. 
We can't dictate what business wants to open where. 
If someone thinks there is a business opportunity then they will start opening halal only places. 
How to convince my parents to let me get a Ball python? 
They don't know ANYTHING about Ball pythons. 
When I ask my mom she says she will never let a snake in her house. 
She has no experience with snakes and has never held one. 
I did all my research and am well prepared to keep one, I'm 14 by the way 
Lay some knowledge on them dude. 
Maybe if they see how much time and effort you've devoted to researching the animal they'll reconsider. 
Tell them it costs like 8 dollars a month (if even that much) to keep it fed. 
Be helpful around the house to show that even if you can't pay for it yourself that youre willing to work for it. 
Once you've buttered them up a bit try to get them to the pet store and ask one of the employees to handle the snake showing your mom how gentle and harmless they can be. 
Maybe even try to get your mom to hold it a bit. 
My wife was TERRIFIED of snakes when we first met, I introduced her to one out my baby corn snakes and she fell in love with it. 
Be persistent, but don't pester them about it cause that'll get you nowhere fast. 
Good luck! 
My general convince your parents to let you get a reptile advice: 
1. Be responsible. 
Do all your chores without being nagged, take care of any existing pets, keep your room clean, and so on. 
Prove, to your parents' satisfaction, that you, not they, will be the one actually taking care of your new pet. 
2. Save up, and research, so that you are ready for your new pet. 
3. Bargain with them. 
Offer to do extra chores, ask for your pet as a reward for good grades, something like that. 
4. Play the sympathy card. 
If you can find a pet at a shelter, or that a friend needs to get rid of because they're moving or whatever, you might be able to talk your parents into "giving it a good home" where you might not be able to talk them into buying a new pet. 
On the fear angle--talk her into coming to the pet store with you. 
Once you're there, ask if you can hold a ball python. 
Once you're holding it, try to get her to touch/pet it... 
My Snake's meal is TOO big, what can I do? 
Just today I bought a medium rat for my beloved Ball Python Salazar (name after Harry Potter). 
Last time I got a medium rat it was a girl and my snake handled her easily. 
But today, I got a boy and realized that he is HUGE! 
I really do love my snake cause she is actually an affectionate cold-blooded creature. 
So my true question comes to this, how can I knock the rat out? 
If I threw him against a wall and still conscious he will run away, do I hang him by the tail so the blood can flush into his skull? 
I really do need answers and advice, and NOT INSULTING ANSWERS!! 
LIKE SERIOUSLY!! >:( 
Best answer shall receive points :) 
iw ould just stick him in the tank and let your snake have a nice hunt for once, snakes jaws detach for this sort of this thing, so why not give her a good hunt, but if you do want him knock him id just throw him against the wall or something,, lol i dont know, i agree with you though throw him, haha 
Ok so if youre snake will take pre-killed, you can "gas it". 
Just put the rat in a sealed tupperwear container with no airholes and wait until it passes out and dies and then feed it. 
If it won't take pre-killed and you usually feed live then you could hold the rat by the tail and whack it against a hard surface, like a refrigerator or wall. 
I don't like that option though - I think it's pretty cruel and I'd not done properly you'll end up really hurting the rat but not stunning him enough to stop possible injury to your snake. 
I would do the tupperwear idea TBH - easiest and most humane. 
You could also just wait until the rat passes out for about 1 minute and them feed it - at this point, it could still have a bit of a heart beat and be slightly still alive. 
And also maybe try holding the rat in feeding prongs so your snake can get a good hold and grip on his prey. 
Good luck! 
Just my opinion here - no judgement - getting your snake on frozen/thawed will prove to be much easier for you and safer for your snake in the long run. 
My opinion - take it for what it's worth :-) 
Looking to move to Toronto? 
I am a 20 something gay black male and I am looking for suggestions on neighborhoods close to the downtown Toronto area. 
Im moving from South Carolina so this will already be a huge culture shock. 
Any suggestions? 
Being gay and living in Toronto is just fine. 
You may consider the Gay Village on Church Street, right downtown. 
It is full of gay friendly "everything". 
But, you could live where ever you fancy takes you. 
For obvious reasons, knowing how extremely difficult it is to drive a car in the city, you should probably try to be near the subway system. 
But, can you immigrate? 
Being an American guarantees you no favours when it come to going to Canada. 
Start your process here, if you haven't already. 
(Marrying a Canadian is not enough - that doesn't count for at least two years.) 
http://www.cic.gc.ca/english/immigrate/index.asp 
A normal processing time, unless you have an advanced degree or a "specified" skill is from 3 - 5 years. 
Coming to stay, and overstay your three months visit will lead to immediate expulsion and a lifetime ban to immigrate to Canada - NOT GOOD. 
Lets be clear about this...........
Just 'wanting to come to Canada " is NOT enough. 
You MUST apply, to become a Immigrant, and WAIT to be approved, by the Canadian Government. 
YOUR education ( the more the better ) and your past work history, combined with a CLEAN FBI and State Police record, and a satisfactory financial history ( no bankruptcies or large outstanding debts in the USA ) are all taken into consideration. 
It is a competition, and YOU will be competing with hundreds of thousands of others, from all over the world, for a place in the line up. 
IF you have NOT begun the Application process's NOW< you are about 2 to 3 years away from being approved by Immigration Canada. 
So don't pack your bags ,yet. 
Whatever you do ...............DO NOT try to come here with out legal permission. 
You will not be able to seek work or take a job, in Canada, with out having to show your Immigration VISA and Canadian Social Insurance Number card to any potential employer. 
Being an American and from the "south " you will be noticed as soon as you speak out loud . 
Do it properly, and legally, and you will be OK. 
Jim B 
Toronto. 
How to train my puppy ? 
I have a 4 months Shih Tzu puppy. 
Recently I'm having trouble training him. 
He is kind of hate walking with leash, every time I put the leash on, he will try to bite it. 
And he is not following me when I was walking. 
I saw lots of videos about this, but actually it didn't help. 
Is there any way can let him know how to walk with leash ? 
And every time he see some one he will rush to people and jump on them, doesn't listen to me. 
He is really excited about anybody he see. 
How to prevent this ? 
Last thing is every time I sit on a chair or something higher than him, he will try to jump on, if he can't, he will bark all the time until I let him get on, what should I do with this ? 
Anyone have any suggestion? 
thank you very much. 
Hi, I am a dog trainer for 25 yrs. 
You need to purchase what is called a shoulder point harness. 
This type of harness goes around the dogs chest and legs and has a clip for the leash up on the back of the dog in middle of shoulder blades. 
This way, he cannot reach the leash to chew it. 
When he swivels his head to go for it anyway, tell him sharp "UH UH" gently correct him with a small tug and continue your walk. 
Do this repeatedly and frequently and he will learn to walk on a leash. 
Patience is the key here. 
He is a young pup and will learn over time and consistency in his training. 
And always, always train with love and positive methods- never hit or harshly scold. 
Never train out of fear. 
You want your dog to admire you as his pack leader, not fear you. 
Good luck with your puppy! 
All the best. 
Put him in dog obedience school or call a professional dog trainer. :) 
why dont you get some treats that he loves and only give him them when he does something right. 
or, as i saw on embarrassing pets on tv, get a clicker type thing and treats as well. 
try to train him to heel, which means to walk round you before he needs to go on a leash, and he may do that. 
or you could even spray some scented spray on the leash and he will go for the scent and probably, if you act quick enough, will stay on the leash. 
What sort of Hotel could I expect to find in New Delhi/Agra/Varanasi for rs500 per night? 
Hey guys. 
I'm looking to visit India with some mates at the beginning of February next year and I am wandering what standard of accommodation we could get for Rs 500 per person per night. 
There would be four of us so we would probably be looking at 2 twin rooms for Rs1000, close to the centre of these cities. 
This would be on a walk-in basis as we want to have the freedom of finding a place that looks good (Not relying on pictures from the internet) and is in a spot we like. 
Thanks in advance for sharing your experience! 
Sorry, almost forgot to ask - Would it be cheaper to walk-in to these hotels rather than pre book? 
In Delhi I'd recommend Ajay Guesthouse. 
Travelled to Delhi twice and stayed there twice. 
Rooms start from 500 per double. 
Those ones are quite small. 
Must say, in Delhi it's hard to get good price/quality rating. 
I have found this hotel in the Lonely Planet guide. 
It's in an area starting with a P, many tourist hotels there and the location is very nice. 
But in general, Delhi is the hardest place to find a nice clean hotel for that price. 
In Varanasi I don't know. 
I've stayed in a more expensive hotel there, but you can check some travelguides or tripadvisor? 
Also, while travelling ask people where they've been and if they have any hotel recommendations. 
In Agra I've stayed in a place fellow travellers recommended, they found it in the Rough Guide. 
It was nice and close to the Taj. 
It was quite easy to find something. 
(Dont stay in Agra too long. 
One night is enough!) 
There were many hotels there. 
Ive paid 500 for a double room there and it was fine and clean. 
Good luck, enjoy your time! 
You may find a normal budget hotel for Rs 1000 per night in the cities you mentioned, the links below may help you to find good hotels in Delhi and Agra. 
http://www.goldentriangleindia.com/delhi/hotels-in-delhi.html 
To Stay in delhi - Hotel Aster Inn is best to stay in delhi. 
it is in karol bagh. 
some beautiful locations like close to Karol Bagh Shopping Market, Presidential Palace, and Birla Mandir Temple and Connaught Place and Jantar Mantar are near to it. 
TO Stay in Agra -Hotel Atithi and Aditya Palace is perfect for you. 
it is centrally situated. 
To Stay in Varanasi - Sandeep Hotel is you choice... 
which one out of these makes the best pet? 
a degu, a rat, a mouse, a hamster or a guinea pig? 
and why is the one a better pet? 
Get a guinea pig. 
I have a hamster, and mice and rats like to escape. 
The Guinea pig is better because its a lot larger than a hamster, rat, mouse, or degu. 
So if you lose him, he is easier to find, because smaller rodents just LOVE to escape from their cages. 
So my opinion is Guinea pigs. 
(plus they dont stink that bad) 
Depends on what you want in a pet, to be honest. 
Also depends on the space you have, how much time you can handle the pet, how much money you can spend, etc. 
I've had experience with all of those pets except Degus. 
My favorite would have to be the rat. 
They're incredibly social, highly trainable, and very clean. 
Mine learned to "go to the bathroom" only in their cages and loved to ride on my shoulder or hang out in my hoodie pouch. 
The only downside is they should be kept in pairs or trios and require a pretty large habitat. 
That means expense, space, and they require weekly cage cleaning. 
My second favorite would have to be the Guinea Pig - not quite as social with people as rats (at least mine wasn't) but more so than most hamsters or mice. 
Again, pairs or trios and pretty big living space. 
They, too, need weekly cage cleaning and can cost quite a bit. 
I could handle my mice, but they where skittish and preferred their cage. 
I've never met a hamster that didn't bite me. 
Never had/handled a Degu. 
Get a guinea pig. 
We have two. 
They are social and like to be handled. 
You have to have two because they don't do well alone. 
Make certain you get two females. 
Two males can fight and you definitely don't want babies!! 
Guinea pigs (also called cavies) are gentle creatures and are awake during the day and sleep at night. 
They will whistle when they hear you as an encouragement for you to give them a treat like leaf lettuce. 
They love leaf or romaine lettuce and tomatos, celery, cucumbers, carrots. 
Don't feed them broccoli, cauliflower, garlic, onions, head lettuce ....they are all too difficult for them to digest. 
Also they can't eat potatos, they are toxic for them. 
If you keep the cage clean they don't smell and you can buy spray on cleaser for them, just massage it into their coat and groom them. 
Fostering 6 week old kittens and HATING IT! 
Need Advice!? 
I wanted to volunteer and help animals, and decided to try fostering kittens. 
This is my first experience and I have two six week old kittens right now and am at my wits end. 
I do not want to have to bring them back before they are eight weeks old but they are ruining my apartment. 
They track poop everywhere (most disgustingly my bed....), and am constantly trying to climb up everything, including my bare legs! 
My legs and hands are just full of scratches. 
I realize they are young and that cats do climb, but this is just ridiculous. 
My apartment also smells repulsive even though I am cleaning out their litter box at least once a day if not twice. 
Any suggestions and helpful hints to make this a more positive experience would be extremely appreciated. 
That's kind of the way it goes..lol. 
Limit them to one room with easy to clean flooring. 
If you have limited options, try the bathroom. 
Make sure there are plenty of litter boxes that are cleaned often. 
Depending on the batch of kittens, I will often have as many as one per kitten. 
They can produce a lot of waste and even scooping twice a day they can get messy. 
For some reason it takes them awhile to learn not to step in poop. 
Also if they have diarrhea, check in with your foster coordinator. 
They made need medication or deworming or something. 
They are testing out their claws and teeth. 
To some degree you can/should help teach them not to use their teeth and claws inappropriately. 
But in the meantime, highly recommend jeans and long sleeves anytime you'll be interacting with the kittens. 
Then take care of yourself. 
Get plenty of sleep and make sure you take time out to do some things you enjoy. 
Try visiting the kittens a few times a day for short periods of time. 
Try to go in there with the right frame of mind and enjoy them for what they are. 
If you still don't enjoy the kittens, see what other opportunities are available. 
They may need foster homes for adult cats in different situations.. sick, recovering from surgery, need a little socialization, etc. 
I find the adults are much easier. 
Generally they're not clawing and biting, they don't make nearly as much mess, they don't need nearly as much litterbox scooping, etc :) 
Decide volunteering is not your thing and give them back! 
And do more research before you agree next time ;-) 
Take the kittens back to the shelter. 
Maybe do volunteer work at the humane society, walk dogs, groom the animals etc. 
what r the requirements to apply for a delay birth certificate in canada? 
what r the evidentary requirements to apply for a delay birth certificate in canada? 
including fees and forms 
It depends on if you ever registered the birth. 
Some places do the registration right at the hospital....in some smaller places, you need to register your child's birth at the town hall/registrar's office. 
My first three children were born in Southern Ontario cities. 
The birth registration was done right in hospital. 
My last son, was born in Northern Ontario....
I didn't know that I didn't register him in the ridiculous amount of paperwork I had filled out in the hospital and was supposed to go to city hall within 90 days. 
Two years later when I got around to filling for his birth certificate, I find out he was never registered. 
I had to call the Office of the Registrar General in Thunder Bay, have copies of the delayed registration form mailed out to me, as they don't have an online area for it yet, fill those out, send them away, then apply for his birth certificate. 
If you are just applying for a birth certificate for the first time, its simple to do it over the computer. 
For $56 you can even have it expedited and will get in three business days or your money back. 
This is in Ontario of course, the rates may be slightly different for other provinces/territories. 
You just need basic information, and answer a few questions like what hospital was the child born at/who was the doctor.... 
None, just walk in to the service office and present all the identification you have to prove your identity. 
they may then chose to ask you to bring more evidence, or just look up the record and hand you the certificate. 
You can probably do it all on-line. 
Start here if you were born in Ontario. 
http://www.ontario.ca/en/information_bundle/birthcertificates/119274.html 
If you were born elsewhere, start here. 
http://www.ontario.ca/en/information_bundle/birthcertificates/119275.html 
Good luck 
My parents didn't send for my birth certificate until I was 16 and needed it for summer employment. 
It was no problem to get PROVIDED the birth was registered in the first place. 
I add that in because there have been some people who have tried to claim citizenship by sending for their birth certificate when they were never really born in Canada or to Canadian parents. 
When a child is born in Canada the birth is registered before the baby can leave the hospital. 
As long as that was done you can send for it at any time. 
Each provincial government has a website that lists the process for that Province so depending upon where you were born you can google it. 
Royal Caribbean or Carnival cruise? 
ONLY IF YOU HAVE BEEN ON BOARD *BOTH* !! 
i want to know which you liked better and WHY? 
include which one had: 
-better food 
-more fun activities 
-more teens 
-AND JUST MORE STUFF YOU LIKED OVERALL 
please specify which royal or carnival ship (: 
Carnival and Royal Caribbean are two popular cruise lines that have strong followings. 
Some cruise aficionados refuse to sail on one or the other. 
Are there any major differences between them? 
Explore which cruise may fit your needs the best. 
For our comparison we sailed on two similar ships - the Carnival Liberty and the Royal Caribbean Mariner of the Seas. 
Itinerary Both ships go to Caribbean Islands like Jamaica, Grand Cayman, Cozumel, St. Thomas, the Bahamas and St. Martin / St. Maarten. 
The Liberty also visited its private island Half Moon Cay, Puerto Rico, and Grand Turk. 
The Mariner of the Seas traveled to its private island Coco Cay and Labadee (the north coast of Haiti). 
We loved most of the locations that both of the ships visited and don't believe that this should be a distinguishing factor on deciding between the cruise lines. 
Shows Each night there are a variety of shows. 
Usually you have the main show and some type of entertainment before and perhaps afterward. 
We felt that the main shows on the Mariner of the Seas were better. 
On the Liberty we liked the comedian and juggling act. 
If you love seeing the shows, Royal Caribbean was better for the main shows and Carnival was slightly better for the comedians. 
Dining Room We enjoyed the atmosphere of both dining rooms on the Liberty and Mariner of the Seas. 
We felt that the menu had a little more variety on the Mariner of the Seas. 
Friendliness of staff The Liberty and Mariner of the Seas both get high grades. 
We did have one waiter that complained some on one of our trips on the Mariner. 
We had a slightly better experience on the Liberty, but feel that both crews did an excellent job and that this should not be a distinguishing factor on choosing a cruise. 
Pools The Mariner of the Seas and Liberty both had salt water pools - which most cruise ships have. 
They both had pools for kids and adults. 
We liked the Liberty's pools better because one had a slide. 
If you have kids, this would be something that they would definitely enjoy. 
Spa We tried the spa on the Liberty and loved it. 
We did not try the spa on the Mariner of the Seas. 
Usually you can't go wrong when getting a spa treatment...... 
Royal Caribbean is better, but the best cruiseline is Regent Seven Seas. 
Look on their website rssc.com 
Royal Caribbean. 
Carnival has been called the WalMart of cruise lines... 
What countries are the best to travel to? 
I really want to travel when I leave school! 
Where in the states could I go? 
Where in Europe? 
Have you every traveled before? 
How long should I go for to each place? 
(I Have 1 year before collage!) 
&Also how much money would I need? 
So I can start saving now hehe 
Thanks :) 
I mean when I graduate & yes, college, sorry for the typo. 
Leave High School? 
Not the smartest move to take off on a worldly adventure if you've never traveled before and you don't put where you would be traveling from. 
In the United States? 
Lots of places. 
There are 50 of them, 48 located from Maine to Florida and California to Washington State and all in between. 
There are 2 more located outside of the main continent with Alaska way to the north and Hawaii in the Pacific. 
What do you like to do? 
Big Cities like New York, Boston, Philadelphia on the East Coast. 
Beaches and Disney of Florida or the Mid Atlantic cities of Atlanta, Savannah, Charleston. 
The federal sites of Washington, DC. 
Southern charm of Nashville, Birmingham, New Orleans or Charlotte. 
West Coast hot spots like Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, Los Angeles or San Diego. 
Europe? 
Just as numerous as the possibilities of the US. 
Do you speak a foreign language? 
I could spend a year in Spain alone. 
From Madrid to Seville to Barcelona an Valencia. 
Bilboa on the north coast, Pamplona and the very famous Guernica. 
A road trip to Lisbon and the Algarve in Portugal before a mountain escape in the Pyrenees and a stop in Andorra before heading over to France and Italy and Austria and Switzerland. 
I've traveled to all of these places and could certainly tailor a trip to your needs based on budget, actual time allowed, your likes and dislikes. 
Amount of time could be dependent on so many things. 
Do you want to see all the sites or simply a few photos and on your way to the next place. 
Does your budget limit you to how long you can stay in each place? 
You need a lot of money for hotels, airfare, seeing the sites, food, local transport - you name it but life costs. 
Once you have a budget or an amount in the bank then you'll be able to figure out where you can go, for how long you can go and what you can do when you're there. 
1 year before collage or college? 
Good luck. 
I recommend buying a single unlimited Europass and travelling anywhere in the EU your heart desires. 
You can't beat the price for what you get. 
come to Africa. 
Nigeria, a lovely country. 
But where in nigeria? 
Obudu cattle ranch. 
More than a tourist centre. 
How do you make your cat adjust to a new house? 
Me and my family are moving into a new house just outside a small town. 
We are currently living a mile from the town in a house surrounded by fields but the new house is beside a busy road. 
We have had the cat for 10 years and dont want to leave it. 
How could we make it settle in a new house. 
you are not just moving house - your cat is losing his territory. 
territory is very important to cats, and they are very nervous when they go into a new place - a new house could be full of predators, or unknown menaces - well at least he thinks so. 
you will need to give him only a small place to explore, so he can make it his territory, and feel safe there. 
then, he can have a place to retreat to when he feels scared. 
you will need to get his box and bowls, and whatever blanket and toys are his, and smell like home, and put him in a room. 
the room you sleep in is best (seeing you so relaxed that you are sleeping will send the message that everything is OK), but others will work just as well. 
close the door, and keep him in there for a week. 
he will feel much safer in that one room, than in a huge unknown house. 
he will explore the room, mark everything with his cheek, and try to make it feel like his territory. 
he will reassure himself that no other animal is in there, and that no other animal will come in - he is afraid that he is in someone else's territory when he is in a new house. 
in a week's time, he will have made it his, and will be getting more bored than afraid. 
let him out for half an hour, to explore. 
then put him back in. 
he will be freaked out, so going back to his territory will make him much happier. 
extend the time he is out each day, but for the first month, always put him in his room at night, so he feels safe to sleep. 
soon he will make the whole house his, but he needs that one safe place to start from. 
remember to visit with him while he is in the room, and tell him how good he is. 
remember to give him the time he needs to feel that the room is his - rush it, and he will be afraid of the whole house for a long time. 
he might even start peeing on things in fear. 
good luck with your new house and with his new territory! 
Let her explore when we moved my cat had to explore the entire house before she felt comfortable. 
In time though she/he will adjust. :) 
they just do it on their own. 
I just adopted a 2 year old male German Shepherd with Major bad behaviors? 
Last night, I adopted a 2 year old Male German Shepherd. 
(He is 92 pounds) He does not listen to any commands, but my major problem is that he will not go outside on command, or even with me. 
I will walk outside and he will stand at the door and stare at me or run away. 
My other MAJOR problem is that he will not get in his crate. 
I will get a treat and try to get him in there that way, it wont work. 
He wont even get close to the crate. 
If I come towards him, he will run away. 
How do I train him to feel comfortable in his crate? 
and to willingly go outside...and to come on command. 
He wont do anything on command. 
Its very frustrating. 
I have a 9 month old German Shepherd that I raised from a puppy. 
I trained her myself. 
She is crate trained, potty trained, and can sit, lay down, stay, come, fetch, and will even stay in a down position while I throw a treat across the floor or even right next to her paw, and she wont get it until I give her the command. 
Yes, lots of time and lots of patients...
I just dont know how to do it with a grown dog. 
She tosses me around like its nothing!
...but basically, what I do is the same thing I did with my puppy...lots of patience, lots of time, lots of praise, lots of treats, and lots of repition....Right? 
Is there any tricks I could use? 
Maybe get a book on training. 
You have to be in command at all times. 
There are ways to get your new dog used to the crate or going out. 
I would start with a leash. 
Put the leash on the dog and just walk around the crate a few times. 
Then take the leash off and do nothing else but that. 
Later do it again. 
When the dog is ok with this, then open the door and walk around the crate, leave the door open all the time. 
Put something fun inside. 
Let your dog go in when he wants to for no reason. 
Do not shut the door. 
Let him walk in and out for a few days. 
At some point he will feel ok with this and you can then close the door but not for long at all. 
Open the door and let him out and see how he acts. 
If you push it, it will never work. 
With going outside, put the leash on and just take him for a walk. 
He will learn to really like this. 
Potty outside will come at some point. 
Try obedience classes. 
Have patience with him, you just got him and who knows how he was treated before you brought him home. 
where can I find the best tours to the Mekong Delta at reasonable prices? 
will only be in Ho chi Minh for 4 days and I am looking for a 1 day or 2 day trip to Mekong delta. 
I have been researching on line and find things are quite pricey but the tours look great. 
Should I just settle and book on line? 
or is it better if I wait till I get there? 
If I wait, would the tours I find there for less money be the same quality type tours? 
Also, any tour recommendations would be very helpful a well. 
Thank you! 
If you want reliable and inexpensive... try Sinh Cafe/Tourist. 
The are located right at 248 De Than St. in the heart of the back packer district. 
I have taken this tour and it was great. 
I did an overnight in a home stay that was sweet and the water market was wonderful. 
I don't remember the exact cost but remember thinking how inexpensive it was. 
Also, Sinh Cafe has been around for a long time and is very reputable. 
And no, I do not work for them. :) 
I am just a satisfied customer. 
And don't expect to party on this tour. 
The south is not like the regular tourist towns. 
Very few clubs and night activities. 
Oh, if you are confused. 
Sinh Cafe is not a Cafe. 
It is a tour agency and they have their own buses etc. 
tele#84838389593 
have fun. 
There isn't much to see in the delta, it's a lifestyle not a resort area. 
If you're adventurous you can take a bus or water taxi to My Tho (near where we live) or Can Tho. 
From either of those cities, you can venture out and spend a day in the country. 
Most of the tourists that I've come across buy tours along the My Tho waterfront. 
You take a boat across the river, then spend a day biking, eating at a local restaurant, buying souvenirs and doing other things that are geared towards tourists. 
The countryside is very beautiful, especially if you have a few months (or years) to get to know the place. 
PS, If you make it to Thanh Pho Ben Tre, stay a night at my friend Ken's hotel. 
It's called Kiwi Heaven and it's across the river from Cho Ben Tre. 
It's a little hard to get to by foot, they're rebuilding the bridge, but you can get someone to moto-taxi you there for a dollar or less. 
He's an ex-pat from New Zealand and he's been in town for awhile. 
He'll set up a real tour of the area for you, not some tourist fantasy. 
Have a good trip where-ever you end up. 
We went with Intrepid as a part of their North to South Vietnam Trip, but they do offer this one day separately. 
We had a great time and visited a location where they made coconut candies, visited a local restaurant which was attached to a fish farm, rode in modified quad bikes and had some tropical food at what appeared to be a local hangout. 
Intrepid is good at getting you away from the most touristy spots and showing you something a little different. 
yoga and horses.....? 
I got a riding lesson today on one of my boss's fino horses and it made me realize just how unsteady my left leg is. 
I mentioned it to my boss and she said to start doing yoga. 
But there are just so many poses and programs! 
Any good poses or programs (I'm willing to buy a dvd as long as it is under $20) to help specifically with leg stabilization? 
I just have a few issues supporting my back and my left leg flops. 
Because I don't feel like spending over $20 on a freakin DVD 
I also have back problems that transfer into my legs. 
I have done Yoga for riders for a while, a 20 minute routine I found on YouTube (I think its called "Yoga for horse back riding" hosted by a man) It helped with noticing slight differences in my balance and weight distribution but not really for the way I use my legs and back. 
Here is what I do now and it really helps.... 
When I first get on I take 1 leg and pull it back up to touch my butt with my heel and hold it there for 1 lap at a walk around a large dressage arena. 
Then the same thing with the other leg. 
Then 1 lap at a walk around the arena with both my legs pulled out as far as I can, so they are not touching the saddle. 
Then a lap doing scissors, one leg forward as far as I can and the other back, then switch legs. 
I'll also trot doing, down 2 beats, up one for a wile, then up 2 down 1 making sure the weight is going into the balls of my feet. 
If the weight is going into your heels (it throws your leg forward) put the stirrups up against the heel of your boot. 
Do a nice working trot, not a slow trot. 
All this will help you use both legs evenly, keep proper contact and use your wight correctly, to keep your leg in a good position. 
BTW you dont want your leg locked in place, it will move WITH the horse a bit. 
When I first started doing it I'd do it every day. 
Now I just do it once or twice a week or as needed. 
Now not only is my leg better, but my back is relaxing. 
what are you having problems with? 
i wouldn't bother with yoga i'd practice more with riding and fixing my problem, ride bareback, with no irons, theres also a way to ride on your knees? 
that help alot with your thigh muscles (bareback though) 
ya i really wouldn't bother with the yoga 
maybe a back brase will help, sometimes my back really gets to me and i've thought about getting one. 
with your leg flopping, just try putting all your weight in your heel and hangon with only your legs, holding my leg back helps me with flopping the more it's forward the more it flops :/ work your calf muscles, maybe try standing on the edge of your steps (on the ball of your foot) and balance to strengthen those muscles 
You don't want to spend more than $20 and yet you have an expensive hobby like riding horses? 
I really can't help you. 
What to feed my dog after gastroenteritis? 
My dog has been sick for about 3 days now. 
He has been having diarheya everywhere and he began to vomit lastnight. 
I thought it would pass until he started to vomit blood and wouldnt drink any water. 
I took him to the Animal Hospital and they ran blood work and everything came back normal. 
No pancreatitis or anything abnormal. 
The vet said it was gastroenteritis and gave him fluids under his skin , an injection of nausea medication along with some take home antibiotics. 
So my question is.. 
Is it normal for dogs to throw up blood while having gastroenteritis? 
and will these antibiotics help? 
I have tryed to give him water but he wont take it.. what should i do? 
i dont want him to get dehydrated and also should i try to give him a little bit of food?
... Some help would be great. 
thank you :) 
They didnt take x-rays they offered them but i just couldnt afford anymore treatment. 
I feel like shit for saying that but after what they have done already i wont be buying grocerys for the next few weeks. 
I will give them and call and see what they say. 
Thank you for the help. 
Ok so i spoke to the vet and he said the give him white rice and boiled chicken but only a little at a time. 
Seince he recieved the fluids lastnight he said not to worry about drinking water for at least a couple of days. 
I went home at lunch to check on him and he is doing 1000etter he was actually walkin around and wagin his tail :) thanks everbody for the info its greatly appreciated. 
To answer your questions in order: 
1) It is not normal for dogs to be vomiting, much less to have blood in it. 
However, if they have been vomiting numerous times, then the blood could be due to irritation of the stomach and intestines. 
He could also have Parvovirus, a GI foreign body, or any number of things. 
Did your vet take radiographs (x-rays)? 
2) Your vet would not prescribe them if they didn't think it would be helpful. 
3) If he shows no interest in water, then take him back to your vet. 
It could be due to nausea or any number of things. 
He could become severly dehydrated (especially if he continues to vomit and have diarrhea). 
From there you end up with electrolyte imbalances, which can lead to heart and kidney problems. 
And being dehydrated, vomiting, and having diarrhea just doesn't feel good. 
4) Call your vet. 
They should have discussed a bland diet with you, including the frequency of feeding and how much to feed at each sitting. 
It sounds like your dog may benefit from being hospitalized, and put on IV fluids to help his hydration, administer the antibiotics IV, and to ensure that he starts to recover. 
You should ABSOLUTELY call your veterinarian back immediately to clarify anything you have questions about. 
They have seen your pet, and are most aware of his condition. 
No one online will be able to assist you more than your vet can. 
You need to ask your vet these questions. 
Boiled WHITE rice and boiled chicken breast. 
Bland food. 
NO SPICES! 
My vet told me when a dog is vomiting a lot, it could be a sign of obstruction. 
Did they do any x-rays? 
I don't know if vomiting blood is common with this ailment. 
You should call your vet now and ask them what is normal or not. 
French dating etiquette? 
I would really love to hear what the French or those who had dated the French to say something about this. 
I'm in my 20's and currently studying in France. 
Coming from an anglo-saxon country my version of dating is 'getting the number, asking her out, etc..' 
However, I've read on the internet that the French dating etiquette is totally different. 
For them, dating would normally be meeting in groups or parties, then pairing off. 
In addition, from my understanding one-on-one dates is something that comes much later and not 'straight-away' like us anglo-saxons. 
They are also very secretive about being in a relationship. 
They only 'go out in the open' once they have reached a certain level of seriousness. 
Is it true? 
I have told a French girl I liked her, and she accepted. 
She is friendly when we see each other on campus. 
She is also nicer when we are both alone. 
However, when we are at parties or when they are people around she seems to ignore me. 
She also seems to hate it whenever I ask her out on a date, to the point she said stop! 
My mind thinks she has no interest in me and just stringing me along. 
But the articles I read seemed to say the contrary. 
Have I just fallen victim in a cultural trap? 
What you have read in the internet is fairly accurate but of course it does not fit all scenarios. 
You are not French for a start, so the "rules" or "customs" may not apply to you when it comes to entering into a relationship between people from different backgrounds. 
From what you say the messages given by this girl are quite clear. 
She is not stringing you along since she is actually discouraging you and is honest enough to tell you to stop asking her out . 
She is just being friendly in public because she does not want to offend you and she treats you like any other friend. 
You said you liked her and she accepted it as a truth and perhaps as a compliment, but it does not mean she fancies you or wants to pair off with you. 
At parties she does not want to be considered in any way attached to you, which is consistent. 
Take the messages for what they are: she has no objection in you being pals at uni, but she does not want to take matters further. 
"Non!" means "non", not "I might consider it, and I will keep you attached to my apron strings just in case." 
Christiane gave you a good answer. 
You have fallen in a cultural misunderstanding. 
What I have to add is that it is normal in France to have mixed gender groups of friends, there's nothing unusual in boys and girls being only friends, which is obviously what this girl wants from you. 
She probably finds your company pleasing as a friend but you are not her choice a a boyfriend and she is trying to keep it on a friendship level, and trying to make you understand that she doesn't want to go further. 
If she is nicer when you are alone I'd say it is because in public view she is making sure that people do not think that you might be her boyfriend. 
You do find the 'get the number hop in bed with her' but be aware that they usually have a reputation as sluts. 
Unfair for the girl as boys don't have that kind of handicap, but that's the way our own rules work. 
Should have done research before you left. 
Why not just take your chances and do it your way? 
True or false: being a young New Zealander means having no future? 
There are no jobs in this country. 
I'm just trying to make up my mind whether I should move to Australia or seek work in the sex industry. 
Is there a future for our nation's youth? 
@Ryan B, 
I'm two years into an undergraduate degree. 
Everybody I know at university intends to stay at uni for as long as possible until there are actually jobs available. 
Everybody seems to flee this country and move overseas, to Australia, etc. 
There's obviously a reason for that (lack of employment, low incomes, etc.) 
Your answer doesn't do anything but remind me that I'm going to be $25,000 in debt by the time I'm 22. 
So, thanks. 
@W.a.b.b.y, 
I really like you're answer. 
it's very logical. 
I've also considered becoming a teacher, but it's not a job I'm cut out for. 
I also wish I'd applied for a scholarship. 
I didn't think I'd be awarded one, but I received the Dux Litterarum award at high school, so my chances were probably better than I thought they were. 
Obviously I'm still completely stupid though. 
I mean, I wasn't smart enough to apply for a scholarship. 
And yes, I am being melodramatic. 
Lol. 
@Hatmanone, 
*gasps* So I wouldn't make a good prostitute? 
Are you saying I'm bad in bed? 
How would you know? 
Joking. 
Your answer is very sweet, but I'm not compassionate towards teenage high school students. 
A little mellow dramatic? 
In my opinion, far too many people are at university studying worthless degrees. 
Yes things like philosophy and fashion design are interesting, but how many jobs are out there for someone with these qualifications? 
I'm studying to be a teacher, so I know that there will definitely be jobs out there when I'm done. 
I may have to live somewhere rural or in Auckland, but at least I can be pretty sure I'll be employable. 
I've also got a bachelors degree so I can go back and do further study or take a different profession. 
I also know that you don't get paid that much more in Australia than you do here. 
And it's not all about how much you earn, cost of living is much higher in many cities in Australia. 
Try living in Sydney on a teacher's salary, then compare it to somewhere like Central Otago. 
You also have to put up with all the annoying accents in Australia. 
It's probably not a wise idea to keep studying and having a massive student loan. 
At the moment there's no interest, but that'll probably change. 
And they'll probably add interest to what you've already racked up. 
And they're working towards being able to extradite people who have left the country to avoid paying it back. 
At the moment if you move overseas you can only come back to New Zealand for a short amount of time before they'll force you cough up. 
And all that time you're overseas you'll be racking up interest. 
I wouldn't like not having the option to return to NZ. 
I guess I'm extremely fortunate that I received a scholarship which paid about 800f my course fees through my degree. 
But I worked hard and I'm still working hard. 
There are far too many lazy people out there who think that they can sit around a job will fall in their lap. 
My 2c. .... 
Get an education! 
I'm doing fine. 
Whilst youth jobs are thin on the ground, don't assume it's better in Oz. 
People have been fleeing this country at roughly a plane load per week for the past 20+ years, so it's not anything new. 
It depends on what you hunger for. 
700f jobs aren't advertised. 
That means making yourself known; that means networking. 
why does my baby king snake refuse to eat? 
i have a baby eastern king snake. 
i have tried EVERYTHING i can to get him to eat but he refuses. 
he has a great environment, with water and lots of hiding places and a heat lamp. 
as far as i know, everything is as good as it can be where his aquarium is concerned. 
according to the vet, he is healthy and looks good. 
he has been going to the bathroom like he should. 
(i know that snakes that have problems going to the bathroom won't eat.) 
he has been drinking water (i am pretty sure he has been drinking it out of his bowl, but also i have been feeding him water and he doesn't ever give me a problem with that - i just stick his head near the water and he sucks it down.) 
i handle him every few days. 
he is feisty, as most king snakes are, but he is a very nice little guy - he never tries to bite or anything. 
i just love him to death. 
i don't know why he won't eat though! 
i have tried feeding him 5 or 6 live pinkies and 4 or 5 frozen (thawed) pinkies. 
i have never tried feeding him a pinky that was bigger around than he is. 
i have tried putting him in a small container and putting him in a dark place for an hour or so and he won't touch the pinky. 
he crawls on top of them but does not try to eat them. 
he doesn't seem to know that they are food. 
i have tried "braining" both live and dead pinkies, and bloodying them up to get his attention, but he doesn't care. 
i have tried dipping both live and thawed pinkies in tuna juice, and in used gerbil bedding. 
i have bought some long reptile feeding tweezers and have tried holding the pinky in front of the snake's face. 
he wont even try to bite. 
i am very discouraged and sad and i don't know what to do. 
he hasn't eaten in an entire month. 
i've only tried to feed him one at a time. 
he's just a tiny baby, about the width of a pencil. 
do babies this small hibernate? 
When you feed him how many pinkies do you feed him? 
If you feed him too many he could just not be hungry. 
If he doesn't seem interested in them at all I would say he's just not hungry. 
My boyfriend has one and when she's hungry she attacks the pinkie right away. 
They can smell it so i'm sure he knows what it is and just don't want it. 
Remember snakes can go awhile without eating. 
In the winter, they will usually go deep underground and enter a hibernation-like state called brumation, which is characterized by a slowed metabolism and reduced activity. 
King snakes sometimes stop eating, particularly during the cooler part of the year. 
They have a natural instinct to hibernate. 
If the snake is not pregnant or shedding, and its enclosure is properly equipped, a loss of appetite probably signals a beginning of hibernation. 
Hibernation is natural, and a necessity for snakes that are going to be bred. 
Another thing that can cause a king snake to stop eating is shedding. 
You can tell when your king snake is about to shed, because its eyes will get milky looking. 
Its body will be dull looking, too. 
In a few days the snake will begin to shed its skin. 
For example, some snakes will routinely go off their food in both the summer and winter, feeding mainly in spring and fall. 
It's natural and so long as you don't see any serious deterioration in their health is nothing to worry about.
You see, some snakes for no obvious reason will simply go off their food. 
They're fit and healthy and their care is suitable. 
hope this helped. 
That's why it's good to have a python! 
It's twice my size and eats a rabbit once a month. 
are my two cats fighting or playing? 
how rough is too rough? 
help!? 
i have a 1 and a half year old male neutered cat and a new 2 month old spayed female kitten. 
the first night i brought her home i did the sniffing under the door thing and left it at that. 
the next day i let her out of the bedroom so they could check each other out, and the kitten hissed twice within the first 20 minutes of meeting each other and now she no longer hisses and they have been playing(chasing each other up and down the hall, rolling around on the ground and pawing at each other). 
only once it looked like my male cat was biting at her neck and then her stomach and she was meowing fairly loud and hissed once then he backed off and now they are fine. 
were they roughhouse playing? 
or were they actually fighting? 
he has been "biting" at her neck and stomach previously while they play without her meowing or anything so im wondering if he went a little to far that one time. 
any answers help!!!!!! 
you did not leave the new kitten in the room long enough. 
you need to do that for a least a week, or else this type of territorial fighting will happen. 
giving the new kitten her own small territory will help her to feel safe and will give her a place to go to when scared. 
right now, your male is fighting off an intruder, and he feels that all of the house is his. 
put her back in the room, and keep the door closed for a week. 
then let her out for ten minutes. 
make it fifteen the next day, then twenty, and so on. 
this will do two things; the new kitten will rub her cheek on the furniture in her room, making it her territory. 
she will start to calm down and feel safe - you can bet she doesn't now. 
she knows she is invading someone else's territory, but can't help it, and has no where to go. 
she will be able to sleep without being afraid. 
as well, your male will be able to see that his territory is not threatened. 
when the door opens, he will get that the one room is hers, and he will be OK with that. 
the territory thing will be solved. 
your male is hurting her to put her in her place - biting her scruff is dominance and biting the belly is a move cats use when hunting - to pull the guts out of their prey. 
this is not good. 
give them time to set up their territories, and once you bring the new kitten out, pay a lot of attention to the male. 
you have brought someone else into his territory, and he needs to be reminded that you still love him, and support his claim to his space. 
that will help to reassure him, and he will be less aggressive with her. 
when they play fight, they don't hiss. 
if they hiss, they are not playing. 
if they bite, and one cries, you must separate them, and you must keep an eye on them. 
hissing is OK, unless they start to fight. 
if that happens, separate them, and give them time apart. 
putting the girl in her territory will make her feel less afraid, and she will relax. 
good luck! 
A hiss is basically a "get the f*ck away" sound. 
It means they've gone too far. 
When they start bleeding that means they're really fighting. 
If they're going kinda slow and like fake biting (not biting as hard as they can), and fake scratching (not hitting as hard as they can with their paws) then they're playing. 
I have two cats, and at first they hissed at each other because cats are very territorial, but now they do fight and play. 
The difference is when the cat hisses, that means they are annoyed and they want the other cat to go away. 
That means they are fighting. 
When they are just jumping at each other and their tails are wagging that means that they are playing. 
I can see how you get confused though. :) 
What was the goal for North Vietnam in the Tet offensive? 
When Johnson deployed troops in 1964 he was advised by the military it would take a half-million troops about ten years to pacify South Vietnam. 
He refused to believe them and ordered the military to win the war within two to three years (before the next election in 1968). 
He did not give them the number of troops they requested. 
This left Westmoreland with few options, so he adapted a Search and Destroy strategy instead of a Clear and Defend strategy which is, in the long run, the preferred method of pacifying an insurgency. 
Thing is, it worked. 
The ARVN was not having a big problem with the Local VC (the guerilla movement), they were being challenged by the Main Force VC (which was light infantry) and the North Vietnamese Army (NVA). 
When the Americans swept in with their Search and Destroy operations the Communists quickly leaned they could not stand up to the US firepower, and these regular troops were forced to flee the country and take sanctuary across the borders in Laos and Cambodia. 
All those sunny reports about the progress in Vietnam were correct, the Communists WERE being defeated. 
However, Johnson would not let the military cross the borders and clean out the Communist bases. 
He was warned that they were building up a huge Army and would eventually launch an attack, but he ignored his military advisers. 
The Communists agreed. 
They could not defeat the Americans. 
However, what they hoped to do during the Tet Offensive was to sneak past the Americans and attack the ARVN in the urban areas where they were deployed doing successful Clear and Defend operations. 
The Communists thought they could defeat the ARVN, cause the fall of the South Vietnamese government, and the people would than rally to the Communist cause and leave the Americans stranded in a sea of angry peasants. 
THAT WAS THE PLAN. 
What happened? 
The Americans detected the attempt to infiltrate the urban areas and were already redeploying troops from the rural areas. 
The ARVN rushed back from holiday leave and counterattacked. 
Within 24 hours every Communist assault had been defeated except in the ancient capital of Hue. 
The government did NOT fall. 
And the South Vietnamese people? 
When give the ultimate choice, they rallied
TO THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE GOVERNMENT. 
Tet was a huge military and political disaster for the Communists. 
They were chased back into Laos and Cambodia with the ARVN in hot pursuit. 
The people rejected their attempt to topple the government, and for all intents and purposes the US military (and the ARVN) handed Johnson the victory he had ordered them to achieve within the time-frame he ordered it. 
All he had to do for a complete victory was allow the military to go into Laos and Cambodia and finish off the shattered Communist forces. 
But Johnson was so obtuse he didnt understand he had a victory when it was handed to him on a silver platter. 
Instead he pulled the military off, stopped the bombing of North Vietnam, withdrew from the presidential race, and spent the rest of his term in office trying to surrender to North Vietnam. 
They screwed up by not accepting his surrender when he offered it. 
The American people were NOT having any of it, and elected Richard Nixon to fix the mess LBJ had made (not to surrender like the antiwar movement was demanding). 
In the end Nixon kept his promise for peace with honor. 
But thats another question. 
To emancipate the south, but it was a serious failure. 
To make the war unpalatable to the American public. 
In that, they pretty much succeeded. 
Before Tet, the war was unpopular but tolerable to the majority of Americans in that the loss of American lives was seen as the cost of subduing the VC and NVA. 
Tet made it clear that the war was a long way from being over if the Americans thought they could preserve the South and that the North was perfectly willing to suffer great losses to continue their fight. 
There is a very good book on the subject that was written by General Vo Nguyen Giap. 
Try google to find the title if you would like to read it. 
Bearded dragon question...? 
I just bought a baby one yesterday. 
I have a basking spot lamp that says it is a double reflector that focuses 35% more light/heat and provides beneficial UVA rays important to the psycholical well-being of him. 
My question is does that mean it gives him not only the heat, but the "sun rays" he needs? 
I also was wondering how long should this light be on. 
The lady at pet smart said 4 hours, but on places on the net it says 10 to 12 hours. 
He's getting used to his new home, but hasn't eatin yet. 
I have bearded dragon juvenile food and freeze- dried crickets. 
Any advice would be greatly appreciated. 
Thank you for your time. 
Let me try to break this down as simply as I can: diurnal (active during the day time) reptiles like the bearded dragon require 3 types of "light," UVA, UVB, and heat. 
Any white light emitting light source will emit UVA, including heat bulbs, that's the easy one to provide for. 
UVB on the other hand can only be reproduced by a fluorescent source. 
UVB will always be a separate bulb from the heat lamp, unless you use a MVB (mercury vapor bulb) which is the only reptile use bulb that will emit both UVB and heat from one bulb. 
I highly recommend that you do not use coiled/compact UVB bulbs as they are known to cause severe eye damage and/or blindness in reptiles not to mention they have trouble maintaining UVB output over time. 
The long tube UVB bulbs are best, like Zoomed's Repsitun model: http://lllreptile.com/store/catalog/reptile-supplies/uvb-fluorescent-lights-mercury-vapor-bulbs/-/zoo-med-24-repti-sun-100-fluorescent-bulb/ Remember to replace UVB bulbs according to the manufacturers recommendation after which time the bulb will no longer produce UVB even if visible light still is. 
So, to answer your question, no, if you just have a bulb that says it produces UVA then you do not have "the sun's rays" that your bearded needs. 
You need to also provide a source a UVB lighting. 
The person at Petsmart is very wrong; in fact it is always a good idea to second guess what most pet store employees tell you; they don't have the best track record regarding giving reliable pet care info. 
UVB and basking temp (should be about 110 F for a baby, 95 F for an adult) should be available for 10 - 12 hours a day. 
Freeze dried food is not a good staple food source; you need to offer live feeder insects. 
Bearded dragons are sight hunters, they need to see the food move to trigger a feeding response, especially when they are babies. 
Live food is also higher in nutritional value than freeze dried. 
Crickets, silk worms, phoenix worms, and various feeder roaches, like red-lobster, turkistan, and dubia, are good example of staple insects to offer your bearded. 
Wax worms and meal worms should only be offered as treat items, for variety's sake. 
I would highly recommend that you read through some reliable bearded guides to make sure you have everything set up correctly: 
http://herp-info.webs.com/beardeddragon.htm 
http://www.beardeddragon.org/articles/caresheet/?page=1 
mm it depends on the size of his tank or cage or whatever you have him in..atleast as far as i'm concerned. 
if there are shady areas he can move to (for example a 3x5x4 tank with light on one side) then you can leave it on a full 12-14 hours, if its a small tank and he can't escape the light then 4-6 at most at a time though quite possibly 4-6 hours at a time twice a day. 
either way you also need to keep an eye on the temperature if you are using a dry fish tank as UV lights in my experience up the temperature significantly and without proper ventilation it can become an oven. 
as to what the light provides it gives UV rays..which is important for health in lizards as it is in humans. 
That lady at PetSmart is a disgrace to the rest of us PetSmart associates... sheesh. 
Yes, it gives him the "sun rays" necessary, that's what UVA is. 
And it should be on 10-12 hours, just like the sun would be up for 10-12 hours in his natural environment. 
As for the heat, just be sure to use a thermometer. 
Also, Beardies often do not eat food that is not moving, so its anyone's guess whether or not he'll touch the freeze-dried crickets or the processed food. 
I tell all my customers they can try it, but don't count on it. 
Also try green leafy veggies, like kale and spinach. 
Best of luck! 
Is a finch or a parakeet better? 
I am making a christmas list for my parents and i was going to ask for a bird and these are the affordable ones that i like, and i was wondering : which would not bite alot, and which are more fun to have as pets AND I NEED TO KNOW WHICH WOULD BE QUIETEST i honestly dont care but my family does ! 
Please help me! 
oh and please say y one is better thx!!!!!! 
Hi there, 
Please choose the parakeet...
Heres my reason..... 
I did the same thing that you did for christmas. 
I ended up getting a pair of zebra finches for christmas. 
At first it was all cool and all. 
They were chirping and doing their every day business. 
After a couple of weeks I got tired of them. 
They are quite messy and you cannot hold or pet them. 
Ive tried to tame them and they just would not get tamed. 
They dont want to be held or touched. 
I want a bird that I can hold and do tricks. 
I still have them and they are doing well. 
A couple of months after I got parakeets/budgies. 
They are adorable they have beautiful colors and personality. 
I love them. 
First of all they are very tame. 
I tamed them in 4 days. 
They can do tricks and they arent messy. 
The whole family loves them. 
My parents even plays with them. 
They are a big part of our family. 
I hope this helps you with your decision. 
They are both about the same noise level. 
When choosing a parakeet look for a young one. 
(the younger the eaiser to tame) Look for clean smooth feathers, beak, and clean vent feathers (the feathers around the butt..dirty vent feathers means the bird is not healthy) Look for a dark eye with no circles (the older ones have a circle ring in their eyes). 
Look for a lot of stripes in their head that starts from the beak and goes back to the back fo the bird. 
the stripes are like hair the less stipes the older. 
(think of a balding man lol) Look for clean feathers. 
If you want a boy the cere (the nostrils piece above the beak) must be blue. 
The girl has either pink or brown. 
I would recommend that you get two parakeets. 
But get either one male and one female, or two males. 
Do not get two females. 
They sometimes dont get along (you know how some girls are lol hahahaahh but for real though, two girls tend to fight a lot. 
I have one yellow girl and a green and yellow boy. 
They are the best! 
If you choose to get a parakeet this is a trick that I used to tame them. 
However if you plan on getting one, then get more than one at the same time they need company. 
My mom told me how to tame them and I was very happy with the results. 
It took me 4 days to get the new one to be able to step on and eat out of my hand. 
These are the steps I used. 
Honestly they have worked for me twice with my parakeets. 
Hopefully they will work for you. 
1) When you get the bird, place him or her or them in the cage. 
Leave them in there with food and water and such for about 2 hours. 
2) Then place you hand in the cage. 
I took the cage and place it next to the couch. 
Then I sat on the couch, placed one hand in the cage, holding a millet spray. 
(this way the will associate your hand with food, and birds love food lol) Then I turned on the tv and watch. 
This way they will see that your hand is good and its not going to grab them or hurt them. 
Do this for about one hour. 
(you can take breaks if you have too) and repeat the steps after about 2 hours. 
3) After about day 2, they will start to eating the millet spray from your hand. 
(do not take away the food dish from the birds, they will associate you as the person who takes away their food)....
Then take your finger and place it under their belly, in front of their feet and say up. 
Push you finger to their feet gently and say up. 
( the first couple of times they will fly all over the cage but as long as you dont jump back or screem they will get used to you) They will have no choice but to go on your finger. 
When they see that you arnt harming them, the will go up on your finger when you say up. 
4) If they are not going up by now you just gotta keep trying and keep trying. 
Do not hit, yell, or harm them. 
You have patience. 
Dont give up! 
After a couple of weeks mines knows when I say shoulder it means ot go on my sholder, when I say up it means to jump up on my finger, when I say up and out it means up on my finger and out of the cage. 
and when I say go home it means to go in the cage. 
Good luck! 
They worked for me and I hope they worked for you! 
They are awesome!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
And thats my reason why you should choose a parakeet over a finch. 
a parakeet is friendlier 
Parakeet. 
They are normally quiet and it is easy to take care of them. 
They are also friendly. 
I have a parakeet named Cookie . :P 
When is the best time to travel to Ireland? 
My sister and I would like to go to Ireland. 
I graduate in the spring, and so we'd like to go between then and winter. 
We don't want too many tourists, and since we'll both be out of school we can go anytime between the middle of June to early November. 
We don't want it to be too cold (not sure when exactly there fall is... or what the weather is really like there during our autumn months), but we don't feel like we need to go right in the middle of summer either. 
We're both in our early 20s and just wanting to explore the beautiful country while we're still young and before our lives start to get even crazier! 
Can anyone give me an idea of when the best time for us to go to Ireland would be? 
People do not go to Ireland on holiday for the weather, it is unpredictable. 
One thing you can be sure of about Irish weather is how little you can be sure of. 
It may be shirtsleeves and sunglasses in February, but winter woollies in March and even during the summer. 
And then theres the rain. 
Ireland receives a lot of rain, with certain areas getting a soaking as many as 270 days of the year. 
County Kerry is the worst affected. 
The southeast is the driest, enjoying a more continental climate. 
The Irish weather works on the four seasons in a day principle, which basically means that you cant predict a thing when it comes to the behaviour of the sky. 
Some basic assumptions, however, can be made. 
In summer, from May to July, the days are reasonably warm and  most importantly  very long: at the height of summer you wont need to turn on lights until after 10pm. 
It is also peak tourist season, which means there are far more people just about everywhere but the most remote corners of the island, and prices are at their highest. 
Not surprisingly, most of the yearly festivals occur during these times so as to take advantage of the crowds and the more favourable weather. 
Spring (February to April) and Autumn (August to October) make good alternatives, although the countrys ever-growing popularity as a tourist destination can often blur the lines between mid- and high-season tourism. 
Still, you have a better chance of some peace and quiet, and the weather can be surprisingly better in April and September than in mid-July  again, its all part of the uncertainty principle. 
Spring festivities include the ever-popular St Patricks Festival. 
Although temperatures do not often venture below freezing, winter (December to February) can be brutal, for huge parts of the country  the west and northwest in particular. 
Crowds are at their thinnest, but many of the countrys tourist attractions and services close down in October and dont reopen until Easter, which paradoxically leaves visitors with a more convincing taste of how Ireland is experienced by most of the Irish: its cold, grey and dark by 5pm, but theres always a pub to escape into when the rain starts sheeting down. 
The thing to do is to bring the right clothing with you, clothes so you can layer up if it is cold and take off layers when it warms up. 
Waterproof clothing and footwear are essential plus an umbrella.. 
As that famous Scotsman Billy Connolly says "there is no such thing as bad weather just the wrong clothes" 
Afraid I cannot be more helpful, it is really a case of pot luck, although as the weather is so changeable often a cold wet morning will turn into a lovely warm sunny afternoon and evening or visa versa. 
If you mean the Republic of Ireland (Dublin) then anytime. 
The summer there is much more mild than most of the US (are you coming from the US?). 
Their seasons are the same as all the countries in the Northern Hemisphere but I would suggest fall. 
It does get pretty cold in Ireland so going before winter is your best bet. 
September for example. 
Rent a car and spend a couple days outside of Dublin seeing the countryside and you will have the trip of a lifetime. 
To explore the beautiful countryside you will need to be old enough to hire a car because public transport is expensive & only goes as far as the main towns/cities, most rural places don't have a bus or train service. 
You could stay in a city & get a bus tour to say the Cliffs of Moher or Dingle peninsula but you will be with all the other tourists. 
By definition most tourists will go to the best places so you might have to put up with a few tourists along the way. 
Best weather the past couple of years has been around late April - late May but it can pour with rain for days on end at any time of the year so be prepared with waterproof jackets/boots etc. 
We only had a few sunny days this summer, barely 24C on a few occasions, more like 14C most days. 
We used our BBQ on precisely 4 occasions. 
Autumn is from mid August onwards as far as the weather goes if not officially according to the calender. 
The days start to shorten & it gets even wetter, windier & colder. 
We had frosts in October so I wouldn't advise visiting late in the year to be honest, Spring time is your best bet. 
You do realise it is quite expensive to visit Ireland? 
You are going to need a few thousand dollars saved up for flights, insurance, food, accommodation & spending money. 
Eating out in particular is quite expensive compared to America I believe. 
Golden Wonder KilliFish Breeding Help? 
I have 4 Golden Wonder Killifish. 
1 of them is really colorful and is about 6cm long. 
2 of them are kinda whitish and are about 4-5cm long. 
The last one is colourful too but it is about 4cm long. 
I feed them Flakes, and Live Earthworms uncut everyday. 
Can you tell me the whole process of breeding them and taking care of the babies? 
Thanks in Advance. 
Wow! 
If they are able to take earthworms uncut, that is really impressive! 
I aspire to your feeding regime, flakes early and something live later in the day.
Worms (and Daphnia) are also rich in Lipids, substances important in forming eggs and growing young. 
I think that you understand that your largest and smallest golden wonders are males. 
If you would like more on sexing out Aplocheilus lineatus take a look at the discussion in the first source below. 
If you have plants in your tank. 
your lineatus are already spawning. 
If conditions are favorable (78-82 F) and the fish are obviously well fed as yours are, they will spawn. 
(I've even had a pair of killies leave eggs on a floating thermometer! 
If you wish to pick eggs make a acrylic spawning mop. 
Checkout the second source. 
I prefer darker colors because I can see their eggs ,more easily and the fish look better next to them. 
Use a well rinsed medicine vial, a cork, new fishing bobber or even a piece of non-crumbly styrofoam to float them. 
There are a couple ways one could spawn lineatus - mop spawning & water incubating them for two weeks, picking eggs from a mop & putting them in a tray of treated, seasoned water or setting up the parents in a planted tank & moving them so the fry can hatch out there. 
If you have the room to separate the male(s) & females(s),& feed them well on live foods, (assuming that you are doing weekly 50% water changes) when you put them together they will leave a lot more eggs. 
Just making up examples, but if a pair is constantly together, they may lay 10-15 eggs a day. 
With extra blackworms and maybe frozen (defrosted, rinsed) frozen foods earlier in the day, they may leave 30-40 eggs at a time. 
Separated and feed extremely nourishing stuff, they may produce more. 
Separating a pair some time before a show (killies are usually shown & judged & often sold as pairs) will encourage them to court and show their best colors. 
They also start the day with no nicks or dings in their fins. 
The water changes help with that too. 
You also may need to treat the incubation water. 
The chlorine and ammonia (choramine) are not good for the eggs. 
Ironically sometimes it is wise to leave the newly picked eggs in fresh tap water with some chlorination to kill microscopic critters that ride in with the eggs. 
THEN put the eggs in water treated a couple of days before with a water treatment and left open to "breathe". 
Leaving a jar with a dozen black worms in it will sate the adult's desire for snacks and they are more likely to leave fry or eggs alone. 
If a pair isn't leaving eggs... check the following: 
1. Is a tank mate (such as another female killie or a Cory or large snails) rating the eggs? 
2. Have we kept up with partial water changes? 
3. Is there too much mineral in the water? 
Aplo. lineatus are wide-spread over southern India. 
That indicates that they thrive in different water chemistries. 
Still if you can get your pet shop to do a hardness or TDS (total Dissolved Solids) test, that may give you a hint.
Winging it a little here, a hardness of 100 to nearly 200 PPM (parts per million) or 5.8 to 10.6 DH should be fine for gardneri. 
TDS meters (the thrifty aquarist's hardness meter can be used if one has seen one of your municipal water department's annual reports. 
They include a number of minerals there and you can figure out what percentage of that would be your hardness minerals (calcium, magnesium and iron). 
A number of minerals are not of much consequence. 
However if there is a high level of sodium chloride (common salt) that can break down the chorion (shell) around the egg and allow critters to get in and eat the yoke and embryo.) 
Ironically sometimes it is wise to newly picked eggs in fresh tap water with some chlorination to kill microscopic critters that ride in with the eggs. 
THEN put the eggs in water treated a couple of days before with a water treatment and left open to "breathe". 
If you get eggs in the mail in a medicine vial, that is fine. 
But get the eggs out, maybe rinsed in fresh tap water and then into the incubation water. 
In time the eggs can suffocate in the shipping container. 
After a number of people began complaining about "mystery deaths"among incubating eggs, some of the more advanced killie people began suggesting that after 7-8 days of incubation, one should do a 100% water change - as the eggs develop, they do release waste material. 
Another problem is that sometimes bad eggs will fungus and the fungus will spread out and kill all the eggs. 
Some people put in a very dilute Acriflaven solution to slow down the fungus, so one can take white eggs out with a pipette or eyedropper. 
Other will add a drop of Methylene blue. 
If an egg turns blue, it had died and then became dyed as the outer membrane broke down. 
Get those out ASAP too. 
Hope there is useful grist for the mill here. 
Disney cruise line with young ones? 
I will be taking my 3 and 4 yr olds. 
What is the best time of year? 
Should I get a balcony? 
Any tips or advice to make this a great experience?? 
Thanks!!! 
It is vacation time. 
Many families are set to plan a best holidaying. 
They look for fun filled, rejuvenating and memorable vacation. 
There can be many ideas; one can see numerous options passing through their mind. 
What is the best option? 
Especially if you are planning to spend couple days with family and kids, which best suit you can select? 
Disney cruises, is a simple answer to this. 
There are many reasons to say Disney cruise is the best bet for you to have a enjoyable holiday tour. 
From 1998 onwards, from its inception Disney cruise has attracted many and continue to attract more and more. 
This is a spectacular ship, a very popular choice of families to spend their leisure time. 
The ship is designed thematically, with imposing animated cartoon characters. 
Do you feel that the holidaying with the animated cartoons will impress only young ones? 
No, the luxurious facilities and fun filled activities in the Disney cruise are very attractive to people of all ages. 
Whatever be the age, you will have the choice of variety of activities to forget about your hectic day-to-day activities. 
Kids fun games and video shows are added to the other facilities. 
There are two ships, Disney magic and Disney wonder. 
Both are made keeping in mind the comforts of the travelers. 
Disney cruises offer 24-hour room services, and the crews are ready to serve you the way you like. 
It has got very spacious rooms, furnished completely and neatly. 
These are decorated uniquely and marvelously. 
The ship offers variety of eatables, deliciously made. 
Sea fishes, prawns and many nice options are there in different restaurants aboard. 
There are many good options of delicious food on the shores as well. 
There are special regions uniquely and imposingly designed for the children. 
They can spend many hours enjoying the Disney world magic. 
These theme parks have all types of facilities. 
Video shows, cartoon stories, wonderful games and many such facilities. 
It is really an entertainment for the kids. 
The amusing world of cartoons and stories will be a memorable experience for the children. 
There are other amnesties also. 
These include space for dances and music, bar facility, gambling facilities for the elder, spaciously made open area aboard and many such nice facilities. 
Also one can keep their privacy in the cabins and make the time in seclusion. 
To relax and to rejuvenate Disney cruise are the best option. 
There are many online sites offering the booking facility with affordable rates. 
You can select the proper route and travel plans by consulting the agents prior to the booking........ 
Off season is good, however, the Disney cruises are almost ALWAYS completely booked. 
I would suggest a warmer season, but not Spring Break or early summer. 
You may also want to avoid Thanksgiving week and the Christmas holidays. 
We REALLY enjoyed our balcony-- coffee in the mornings, drinks at night, standing outside when docking and leaving port-- however, it is quite a bit more expensive. 
With young ones, I would definitely get a window or view room so they can see outside. 
Check out the kids' space as soon as you get onboard. 
Do NOT feel guilty about taking them there. 
They have a BLAST so the sooner they get there, the sooner they can have fun. 
We liked getting the late dinner seating, so you have more time to see movies and stuff but if your kids are 'early to bed' you may want the earlier seating for dinners. 
Bring some sort of magnet or small magnetic whiteboard for your door. 
All of the doors tend to look alike and having 'something' on your door helps you and your kids find your room easier. 
You can also leave notes for the rest of your family (husband) about where you are at any given point. 
Cell phones do NOT work on board but they give you a 'walkie-talkie' kind of phone in your room that WILL work onboard. 
Each evening you will get a 'magazine' called The Navigator which lists all of the activities for the next day. 
We always took ours to dinner and discussed what things we felt we 'had' to do and which ones we felt like skipping in lieu of just chilling. 
Any time would be great. 
off season cruises might actually be better with preschoolers as prices might be lower in the off season. 
My wife and I, in our 60's at the time, originally planned a 3 generation trip but some family emergencies caused everyone else to cancel. 
We had a ball. 
We had an inside cabin and it is what I would recommend. 
There are so many things to do that you will only use your room for sleeping and the extra cost of the balcony is wasted. 
The children can be checked in and checked out in a safe way at many activities so you can have a bit of free time without the little ones. 
The range of activities can be illustrated by describing the water activities. 
There is a splash fountain (no standing water) for little ones still in diapers; Next is a wading pool for those who are potty trained; Then a family pool; Finally there is a pool for adults only with kids not allowed. 
You will never be so spoiled in your life as you are on a Disney Cruise. 
If you stay with your dining schedule, every night is dinner and a show. 
The real payoff is that you will have the same waiter for the entire cruise. 
Our waiter quickly grasped the fact that I like Ginger ale and rather spicy foods while my wife's taste ran to lemonade and less spicy fare. 
Since they knew our preferences, we almost always went along with their menu suggestions and were never sorry we did. 
Obviously they had a full beverage list including alcohol for adults who wanted it. 
If you should miss a meal, you also missed a great show. 
but food is always available and it is consistently good. 
I think I gained three pounds in my week long cruise. 
This is about my farrier, girls. 
That's why I'm posting here! 
Help? 
I posted this in singles and dating too, so I've just copied and pasted. 
Well, I'll try to make this short. 
I have known this guy for a long time, but we've never been good friends or anything. 
He is my farrier (shoes my horses feet) so I am technically a client if you want to view it that way. 
Well, almost two weeks ago he came out and did my horses feet and was SO flirty. 
He always hugs me when he comes, but he gave me at least 5 tight, long, back rubbing hugs while he was there. 
We were also just talking about my horse's crappy feet and he mentioned. 
"Well, if you ever just want to see me I'll come out and look him over and then we can grab a coffee after." 
That has NEVER happened before so I was kinda realizing at that point that he was a little interested. 
Right?? 
Anyway, so he ended up leaving one nail out of my horses foot(I've never heard of a farrier doing this) and telling me to call him in a few days(first it was a week, then it was a few days lol) and he'd come back out and put it in. 
He told me to remember to call like 3 times before he left. 
So, I waited a week to call because I was busy and I wanted to have him come out on a day when I am more available in case we were to hang out after ;) 
Anyway, so that was 2 days ago that I called and left a message, but he still hasn't called back yet. 
I don't know if I should call him again tomorrow or not? 
I know a lot of people say to wait until he calls you, but it's different because I'm a client and technically that's all I am at this point. 
On the other hand though, if I'm a client he should really of called back by now because you don't leave a customer hanging. 
He didn't have my number either because this was the first time I've called HIM instead of his dad. 
It's a father and son business. 
Anyway, I would appreciate ANY insight on this at all. 
Thank you for reading if you did! :) 
Ok, well as far as him being a bad farrier for leaving a nail out - That is not the case, they are extremely well known farriers in the area. 
I would be a lot more concerned if the shoe fell off because it was missing one lousy nail. 
The reason he said he didn't put that nail in was because he "didn't want to risk it" with my horse's horrible feet. 
This is about the fourth time they've done my horse's feet because I just switched back to them. 
The only reason I switched away from them in the first place is because my good friend who apprenticed with them was starting out on his own. 
However, he left my horse without a shoe for TWO WEEKS(now that's what I call a crap farrier). 
Which, I might add is the same foot that keeps crumbling with the nails. 
So, obviously I switched back to these guys. 
Ok, calm down, it's not like he's some stranger that came up and groped me lol. 
I've known the guy for about 10 years. 
I am 21, so yeah we were both kids when we knew each other! 
He is a few years older than me. 
And yes, I do like him. 
To answer Barry White, yes that did occur to me :) I hope that is all he's waiting for. 
On the other hand, he could very easily just call me and say hey I'm busy right now, I'll call you when I can come out. 
And as far as scheduled visits go, I have no idea. 
I've never done that before though either. 
It's always just "Okay, they're feet need to be done, better call the farrier." 
And they usually come out within a few days. 
He will call you back Im sure! 
Sounds like He really likes you.. 
But you need to ask yourself do you feel the same way? 
would You like going for *coffee* with him? 
or is he Not your type? 
Or are you undecided? 
If i were you I would Go... 
I would say if he does not call you back by friday call him again he could be playing hard to get? 
I think he left the Nail out of the shoe as a excuse to come back and see you hey he may be your Prince charming.. 
Edit... I really dont think Your horse Is in danger Of being hurt With one Nail missing.. 
I have seen horses Loose Nails On there Own And do just fine with ONE nail gone Now if he had left out 2 or 3 I would be wondering to... 
I really do belive he left the nail out becuse of the horses Hoof condition and Its a added bonus he would get to see her again 
When I was Younger In my early 20s My farrier was A hottie named Joby..( for those who don't Know I AM A GIRL read my Bio on my Page) dumb as a post about everything But horses.. 
He was In his 30s divorced and Had 2 kids.. but we both flirted Horribly with each other.. but neither one of us took the chance and Asked to other on a date. :( 
sorta wonder what it would have been like? 
But That was Years ago. 
He had this Habit of telling you Everything.. 
Well one day he said to me You know i don't wear Underwear as he was bent over Working on my Mares Right front hoof.. and I was Like Ummmm okay??? 
Im glad his butt was facing me so he couldn't see my red face I think my Mare was even laughing.. 
Well 6 weeks Later when he came back out He was again working on my mares front Foot and I looked Down and Yeah he had Wholes In his pants In the wrong places I bust out Laughing and He was like what??? 
I was like Ummmm i can see your ass cheeks...he was like Oops did i forget my Underwear??? 
that was a strange way to flirt.. but i guss it was his way... 
But like i said nothing ever came of It.. the next time I saw him He had told Me he had To get married to a girl Who he worked with becuse he knocked Her Up.. 
I was heartbroken.. but then realized He was not the Guy for me.. 
Wow he does sound interested in you, my farrier never gives me hugs like that (probably a good thing as he has a wife and 2 kids) anyway, I find that they can be very busy so I would wait a week lo9nger and if still no reply give him a call but dont leave a message so you dont have to necessarily wait for him to call. 
From the point of view of a business, and client/operator relationships, he's doing a really shitty job. 
Leaving nails out so you'll call and have him come back out later? 
Cute or not, I'd call a different bloke because he's doing a sub-par job at something he needs to be doing his best at, whether he's flirting or trying to ask you out or not, he ought to put quality first. 
This is, after all, his business, and if he wants you to remain a customer why on earth is he doing shoddy work? 
EPM, Anyone Dealt with it? 
Might be something different? 
I have the opportunity to pick up a super nice 6 year old for free. 
He's not lame, but he's been having issues. 
Here's what the owner has said: 
I have a 5 year old that lost all of his cheek muscle on the right side about 3-4 months ago. 
I chalked it up to possible nerve damage, because this is what the vet thought and the other cheek muscle was fine and he had no theeth problems. 
So I sent him to the trainers the first of September to be started on the barrels. 
I got him back the first of the month and he had lost some weight but attributed that to be worked everyday (I expected him to drop some). 
He is now losing the cheek muscle on the left side of his face and seems to be dropping weight by the day. 
Had him to a dentist yesterday and there is no teeth problems. 
He can eat all his feed and doesn't drop any, but cannot eat hay from lack of muscle to chew it. 
He is gant looking in his flank area and is losing topline muscle. 
The only neurological sign that he shows is that he barely drags his toes and sometimes has trouble with his right lead. 
The horse I had posted about a couple weeks ago with the atrophied cheek muscles is down to his last resort for life. 
I CANNOT afford to treat whatever is wrong with him. 
NO, I have not done an EPM test but have done an extensive blood panel and my vet did a neurological physical exam. 
We elected to not do the EPM test because there was NO neurological signs. 
He is still showing no signs other than the weight loss, and some muscle atrophy. 
He eats all of his grain but it just takes him a while to get it chewed because of the lack of muscle in his jaws. 
So I might get the horse and see what I can do. 
I will be getting with my vet first and if I do get him, have the spinal fluid test done for EPM and a titer test. 
Will be getting a copy of the blood results the owner has already ran as well. 
My other theory would be wobblers. 
I'll be having my equine chiro/acupuncturist out to do some work as well if I do get him.... 
So any ideas? 
Think I should do it? 
Arby, 
Horse is out of state and not local. 
Owner is willing to meet me half way with him. 
I will be calling my vet and chiro about him. 
Worse comes to worse, I'm out of the $$ and have to put him down anyway or have a pretty pasture ornament. 
He's still rideable currently and not having many issues under saddle. 
This is a horse that I otherwise wouldn't be able to afford and even if I spend 2K and treatment I come out ahead of his purchase price. 
I posted what the owner as said in paragraph 2 & 3, that is not me to clarify. 
She is the one that can't afford to do anything else for him in case he doesn't recover fully. 
He can eat grain and I already have a feed regimen in my head for the guy since he can't eat regular hay. 
I don't think it will be hard to keep his weight up so long as he can eat the grain. 
I am not going to go pick up a horse I can't afford. 
I am willing to pull the EPM test and treat. 
The owner is the one who is unable. 
I will also be having my other vet up who's a chiro & acupuncturist to evaluate him for wobblers. 
July is when he started to exhibit slight symptoms and the owner and vet originally thought it was just some nerve damage from something in the pasture with no visible injury. 
He's only exhibited weight loss and some muscle atrophy, with the slight toe drag and a bit of trouble with the right lead (which could or couldn't be related). 
The horse is not in pain. 
He's not starving. 
He's dropping we 
The horse is not in pain. 
He's not starving. 
He's dropping weight, but most of that came from being at the trainers and being ridden hard for 60 days. 
He's not putting it back on. 
I know that I have the possibility of treating him and still having to put him down. 
At the same time I do know people who have had horses come back successfully after EPM. 
I know this is going to be expensive. 
I'm willing to give it a shot. 
Gallop, I've already read that whole site and been reading through research articles from the research colleges as well. 
Looked at studies, treatment options and such. 
I will have the EPM test done before treating. 
The chiro/acupuncturist will be there to evaluate the horse for wobblers which is often caused by spinal compression and can be confused with EPM. 
If that is the case then acupuncture isn't going to hurt him. 
It's actually one of the alternative therapies for EPM 
I think it is wonderfully responsible that you are going into this rescue eyes open and are getting the opinions of qualified professionals (and a bunch of Yahoos) before you decide to take this horse on. 
I do think some Y!A users need to work on their reading comprehension as I can't comprehend how taking a horse in as a rescue and getting it qualified medical treatment is abuse. 
Worst case scenario you fall in love and after spending thousands of dollars you have to put the horse down. 
Is that something you are up for? 
If so go for it and I'll give you all the moral support I can as you figure out what is up. 
It is heartbreaking to try to bring a horse back and then have to put it down, but some horses are worth the risk. 
If you feel this guy is worth it then I hope your vet can figure things out. 
As to EPM like Shee said being in MI we've had to deal with it. 
Pretty much every large stable has here. 
Our first diagnosed EPM horse was back when there was no treatment in the US and only an experimental chicken feed additive in Canada. 
We hauled the horse to Windsor and got him treated there. 
That horse returned to racing and we didn't notice much difference. 
We've had a few since then, but none since our race horses began wintering in Florida. 
I have no idea if that is related or farmers are doing a better job of clearing out opossums now because they know opossums are carriers, but we haven't had an EPM horse in at least 10 years. 
I can say all of our EPM horses were treated early when they were showing mild signs like Shee gave and all returned to racing. 
One horse even got his lifetime mark after being treated for EPM. 
We've always liked big long trotters that do better on mile tracks then 1/2 mile. 
The only difference we noticed is that the EPM horses seemed to do worse on the smaller tracks after. 
It might just be coincidence or the fact those great big trotters with those extremely long backs lost a bit of fine coordination to get those gangly bodies around those tighter turns. 
I don't know. 
MSU does a lot of EPM studies because of how common it is here. 
You may want to see if you can get in touch with their EPM group and get this guy in a study. 
I know they did lab work showing that Strongid C used daily could help prevent EPM. 
I believe they have a real study testing the lab work in real world situations now, but it may be sometime before those results are released. 
Another thought with this being a mosquito season from hell could it be West Nile? 
West Nile can cause EPM like symptoms and doesn't always include a fever. 
Let us know what you decide to do. 
You hate to see talent get wasted, but honestly I don't think I could take in a horse right now these issues. 
Personally I think you should just keep on walking by. 
You should have you chiro out before you decide if you want this horse or not. 
If you have a good repoire (which I'm sure you do) with them, they should be honest on if this horse is fixable to any degree... not really sure what you want to do with him... 
Even if you can figure out what is wrong with this poor poneh, there is always the chance for remission and then relapse so you may have to do deal with again in the future. 
So all in all, put the money up front before taking on this horse. 
A few hundred out of pocket now will possibly save you thousands once the horse is in your name. 
Could he have had a blow to the head causing this atrophy? 
Or a difficult birth? 
Was it always like this? 
Or has it occurred since birth. 
I also wonder if he might have had a slight stroke? 
I think if you cannot afford to get him treated that you should not consider him as a prospect. 
Who knows what the future might hold, and it might be expensive? 
