Learning Objectives 
By the end of this section, you will be able to: 
Describe cognition 
Distinguish concepts and prototypes 
Explain the difference between natural and artificial concepts 
Imagine all of your thoughts as if they were physical entities, swirling rapidly inside your mind. 
How is it possible that the brain is able to move from one thought to the next in an organized, orderly fashion? 
The brain is endlessly perceiving, processing, planning, organizing, and remembering—it is always active. 
Yet, you don’t notice most of your brain’s activity as you move throughout your daily routine. 
This is only one facet of the complex processes involved in cognition. 
Simply put, cognition is thinking, and it encompasses the processes associated with perception, knowledge, problem solving, judgment, language, and memory. 
Scientists who study cognition are searching for ways to understand how we integrate, organize, and utilize our conscious cognitive experiences without being aware of all of the unconscious work that our brains are doing (for example, Kahneman, 2011). 
Cognition 
Upon waking each morning, you begin thinking—contemplating the tasks that you must complete that day. 
In what order should you run your errands? 
Should you go to the bank, the cleaners, or the grocery store first? 
Can you get these things done before you head to class or will they need to wait until school is done? 
These thoughts are one example of cognition at work. 
Exceptionally complex, cognition is an essential feature of human consciousness, yet not all aspects of cognition are consciously experienced. 
Cognitive psychology is the field of psychology dedicated to examining how people think. 
It attempts to explain how and why we think the way we do by studying the interactions among human thinking, emotion, creativity, language, and problem solving, in addition to other cognitive processes. 
Cognitive psychologists strive to determine and measure different types of intelligence, why some people are better at problem solving than others, and how emotional intelligence affects success in the workplace, among countless other topics. 
They also sometimes focus on how we organize thoughts and information gathered from our environments into meaningful categories of thought, which will be discussed later. 
Concepts and Prototypes 
The human nervous system is capable of handling endless streams of information. 
The senses serve as the interface between the mind and the external environment, receiving stimuli and translating it into nervous impulses that are transmitted to the brain. 
The brain then processes this information and uses the relevant pieces to create thoughts, which can then be expressed through language or stored in memory for future use. 
To make this process more complex, the brain does not gather information from external environments only. 
When thoughts are formed, the brain also pulls information from emotions and memories (Figure 7.2). 
Emotion and memory are powerful influences on both our thoughts and behaviors. 
Figure 7.2 
Sensations and information are received by our brains, filtered through emotions and memories, and processed to become thoughts. 
In order to organize this staggering amount of information, the brain has developed a file cabinet of sorts in the mind. 
The different files stored in the file cabinet are called concepts. 
Concepts are categories or groupings of linguistic information, images, ideas, or memories, such as life experiences. 
Concepts are, in many ways, big ideas that are generated by observing details, and categorizing and combining these details into cognitive structures. 
You use concepts to see the relationships among the different elements of your experiences and to keep the information in your mind organized and accessible. 
Concepts are informed by our semantic memory (you will learn more about semantic memory in a later chapter) and are present in every aspect of our lives; however, one of the easiest places to notice concepts is inside a classroom, where they are discussed explicitly. 
When you study United States history, for example, you learn about more than just individual events that have happened in America’s past. 
You absorb a large quantity of information by listening to and participating in discussions, examining maps, and reading first-hand accounts of people’s lives. 
Your brain analyzes these details and develops an overall understanding of American history. 
In the process, your brain gathers details that inform and refine your understanding of related concepts like democracy, power, and freedom. 
Concepts can be complex and abstract, like justice, or more concrete, like types of birds. 
In psychology, for example, Piaget’s stages of development are abstract concepts. 
Some concepts, like tolerance, are agreed upon by many people, because they have been used in various ways over many years. 
Other concepts, like the characteristics of your ideal friend or your family’s birthday traditions, are personal and individualized. 
In this way, concepts touch every aspect of our lives, from our many daily routines to the guiding principles behind the way governments function. 
Another technique used by your brain to organize information is the identification of prototypes for the concepts you have developed. 
A prototype is the best example or representation of a concept. 
For example, for the category of civil disobedience, your prototype could be Rosa Parks. 
Her peaceful resistance to segregation on a city bus in Montgomery, Alabama, is a recognizable example of civil disobedience. 
Or your prototype could be Mohandas Gandhi, sometimes called Mahatma Gandhi (“Mahatma” is an honorific title) (Figure 7.3). 
Figure 7.3 
In 1930, Mohandas Gandhi led a group in peaceful protest against a British tax on salt in India. 
Mohandas Gandhi served as a nonviolent force for independence for India while simultaneously demanding that Buddhist, Hindu, Muslim, and Christian leaders—both Indian and British—collaborate peacefully. 
Although he was not always successful in preventing violence around him, his life provides a steadfast example of the civil disobedience prototype (Constitutional Rights Foundation, 2013). 
Just as concepts can be abstract or concrete, we can make a distinction between concepts that are functions of our direct experience with the world and those that are more artificial in nature. 
Are there Moral Facts? 
So far, we have covered how evolutionary ethics relates to the question what we ought to do and why we are moral in the first place. 
A related set of questions about ethics are metaethical questions, which concern the meaning of moral terms, our ways of gaining knowledge of moral facts, and the nature of the moral facts. 
In other words, apart from thinking about how we ought to live, and where our moral sense comes from, we can also ask what it means to affirm a particular answer to that question, how we could come to know the answer, and whether the answer would be a matter of fact or more like an opinion. 
Many books and articles in moral philosophy start with the observation that moral judgments seem to be objectively true and the assumption that this is how non-philosophers also think about morality. 
For example, Michael Smith writes: 
We seem to think moral questions have correct answers; that the correct answers are made correct by objective moral facts; that moral facts are wholly determined by circumstances; and that, by engaging in moral conversation and argument, we can discover what these objective facts are. 
(Smith 1994, 6) 
But as we have seen above, evolutionary theory explains why we would think that moral judgments are objective. 
The philosopher Michael Ruse takes this to show that the apparent objectivity of morality is something like an “illusion” foisted on us by our genes (Ruse [1986] 1998, 253). 
Of course, even if Ruse is correct, this does not show that moral judgments are not objective, but it can make us think whether the objectivity of morality really has to be explained, as many philosophers assume. 
Ruse has also argued that an evolutionary account of morality suggests that there are no moral facts in the first place. 
Anything we want to explain about morality can be explained without mentioning moral facts, or so Ruse argues. 
If moral facts are explanatorily redundant, indeed, moral realists (those who believe there are mind-independent, objective facts about morality, as discussed in Chapter 1) need to say why we should still suppose that moral facts do exist. 
Interestingly, Ruse’s methodological naturalism leads him to embrace a view that goes against the metaphysical naturalist position that moral facts exist. 
Relatedly, Sharon Street, for example, argues that evolutionary explanations of morality show that moral realism is probably false. 
The kind of moral realism that Street has in mind is the view that moral properties exist as objective features of the world (to wit, whether stealing is wrong is independent of whether anyone thinks or feels that stealing is wrong). 
Street starts with the premise that our moral judgments are influenced by evolutionary forces. 
This fact, Street claims, gives rise to a dilemma for moral realists concerning the relation of the evolutionary forces that influenced our moral judgments and the moral facts claimed to exist by moral realists. 
If there is no relation between the evolutionary forces and the moral facts, then it would be an astonishing coincidence if many of our moral judgments were true. 
In light of the coincidence, we have no reason to assume that our moral judgments are true—an unpalatable conclusion for realists. 
Claiming that there is a relation, however, is empirically dubious, according to Street. 
Mirroring Ruse’s claim, moral facts could be purged from what we assume to exist because they do not perform an important explanatory function. 
So, we should reject moral realism. 
Street’s argument illustrates how evolutionary theory can be used to make a case about which metaethical theories we should adopt. 
Both Ruse’s and Street’s arguments rely on the idea that we should only accept that something exists if it plays an indispensable explanatory role and there are means to resist these arguments. [12] 
Both arguments, as presented here, rely on the correctness of the evolutionary explanation of morality they convey. 
In the next section, we turn to the relevance of evolutionary ethics for moral epistemology. 
E.g. Enoch (2010) 
Can We have Justified Moral Beliefs? 
The evolutionary argument by Sharon Street can also be interpreted as an argument about moral justification and moral knowledge. 
Suppose that moral realists assume that there is no relation between our moral judgments and the moral facts. 
It would seem like an incredible coincidence if the realists were right that our moral judgments are nonetheless true. 
There are just too many possible moral truths and too many ways in which evolution could have “pushed” our moral beliefs. 
Street claims that such a coincidence would be too much to believe. 
But what is the problem, exactly, with having beliefs that are only coincidentally true? 
Depending on how we understand “coincidence,” my belief that there is a bird outside my window is coincidentally true because had I looked a little later, the bird would have flown away already. 
Accidentally true beliefs do not seem problematic in every case. 
The question for proponents of Street’s argument is to show why the evolutionary influence on human moral beliefs makes for a particularly problematic case of coincidence. 
The philosopher Richard Joyce argues that the problem has to do with the sensitivity of our moral beliefs to the moral facts (Joyce 2006). 
Given that our moral beliefs are influenced by evolutionary forces, and not by the moral facts, our moral beliefs would be the same even if the moral facts would change. 
But because we should not hold on to such insensitive beliefs, evolutionary explanations of morality show that our moral beliefs are unjustified (because they are not sensitive). 
It is not clear, however, whether and why evolutionary explanations of morality reveal something about our moral beliefs that is particularly troubling from an epistemological perspective. 
The impact of evolutionary ethics on epistemological questions depends on these deeper questions about epistemology. [13] 
Evolutionary explanations of morality, however, provide us with a useful starting point for thinking about these questions. 
See Klenk (2019). 
CONCLUSION 
Evolutionary ethics has helped us to get a much clearer sense of where the human moral sense is coming from. 
While this is a far cry from revealing to us what we ought to do, the research program seems full of promise nonetheless. 
Once we get into the details, we can see that it also raises deep theoretical questions about evolutionary explanations, the relation of descriptive and normative claims, the epistemology of justification and truth, and the general viability of naturalism in ethics. 
Much left to wonder, then, but with some ideas about where to get our answers. 
2.2 The Motivated Learner 
Questions to consider: 
How do different types of motivation affect my learning? 
What is resilience and grit? 
How can I apply the Uses and Gratification Theory to make decisions about my learning? 
How do I prevent negative bias from hindering learning? 
In this section, you will continue to increase your ability as an informed learner. 
Here you will explore how much of an influence motivation has on learning, as well as how to use motivation to purposefully take an active role in any learning activity. 
Rather than passively attempting to absorb new information, you will learn how to make conscious decisions about the methods of learning you will use (based on what you intend to do with the information), how you will select and use learning materials that are appropriate for your needs, and how persistent you will be in the learning activity. 
There are three main motivation concepts that have been found to directly relate to learning. 
Each of these has been proven to mean the difference between success and failure. 
You will find that each of these is a strong tool that will enable you to engage with learning material in a way that not only suits your needs, but also gives you ownership over your own learning processes. 
Resilience and Grit 
While much of this chapter will cover very specific aspects about the act of learning, in this section, we will present different information that may at first seem unrelated. 
Some people would consider it more of a personal outlook than a learning practice, and yet it has a significant influence on the ability to learn. 
What we are talking about here is called grit or resilience. 
Grit can be defined as personal perseverance toward a task or goal. 
In learning, it can be thought of as a trait that drives a person to keep trying until they succeed. 
It is not tied to talent or ability, but is simply a tendency to not give up until something is finished or accomplished. 
Figure 2.3 
U.S. Army veteran and captain of the U.S. Invictus team, Will Reynolds, races to the finish line. 
(Credit: DoD News / Flickr / Attribution 2.0 Generic (CC-BY 2.0)) 
The study showed that grit and perseverance were better predictors of academic success and achievement than talent or IQ. 
This personality trait was defined as “grit” by the psychologist Angela Duckworth. 1 
In a 2007 study Duckworth and colleagues found that individuals with high grit were able to maintain motivation in learning tasks despite failures. 
The study examined a cross section of learning environments, such as GPA scores in Ivy League universities, dropout rates at West Point, rankings in the National Spelling Bee, and general educational attainment for adults. 
What the results showed was that grit and perseverance were better predictors of academic success and achievement than talent or IQ. 
Duckworth, A. L.; Peterson, C.; Matthews, M. D.; Kelly, D. R. (June 2007). "Grit: Perseverance and passion for long-term goals". 
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 92 (6): 1087–1101. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.92.6.1087. PMID 17547490. 
Applying Grit 
The concept of grit is an easy one to dismiss as something taken for granted. 
In our culture, we have a number of sayings and aphorisms that capture the essence of grit: “If at first you do not succeed, try, try again,” or the famous quote by Thomas Edison: “Genius is one percent inspiration, ninety-nine percent perspiration.” 
The problem is we all understand the concept, but actually applying it takes work. 
If the task we are trying to complete is a difficult one, it can take a lot of work. 
The first step in applying grit is to adopt an attitude that looks directly to the end goal as the only acceptable outcome. 
With this attitude comes an acceptance that you may not succeed on the first attempt — or the nineteenth attempt. 
Failed attempts are viewed as merely part of the process and seen as a very useful way to gain knowledge that moves you toward success. 
An example of this would be studying for an exam. 
In your first attempt at studying you simply reread the chapters of your textbook covered in the exam. 
You find that while this reinforces some of the knowledge you have gained, it does not ensure you have all the information you will need to do well on the test. 
You know that if you simply read the chapters yet again, there is no guarantee you are going to be any more successful. 
You determine that you need to find a different approach. 
In other words, your first attempt was not a complete failure, but it did not achieve the end goal, so you try again with a different method. 
On your second try, you copy down all of the main points onto a piece of paper using the section headlines from the chapters. 
After a short break you come back to your list and write down a summary of what you know about each item on your list. 
This accomplishes two things: first, you are able to immediately spot areas where you need to learn more, and second, you can check your summaries against the text to make certain what you know is correct and adequate. 
In this example, while you may not have yet achieved complete success, you will have learned what you need to do next. 
In true grit fashion, for your next try, you study those items on your list where you found you needed a bit more information, and then you go through your list again. 
This time you are able to write down summaries of all the important points, and you are confident you have the knowledge you need to do well on the exam. 
After this, you still do not stop, but instead you change your approach to use other methods that keep what you have learned fresh in your mind. 
1 The Americas, Europe, and Africa Before 1492 
1.1 The Americas 
Learning Objectives 
By the end of this section, you will be able to: 
Locate on a map the major American civilizations before the arrival of the Spanish 
Discuss the cultural achievements of these civilizations 
Discuss the differences and similarities between lifestyles, religious practices, and customs among the native peoples 
Figure 1.2 
(credit: modification of work by Architect of the Capitol) 
Some scholars believe that between nine and fifteen thousand years ago, a land bridge existed between Asia and North America that we now call Beringia. 
The first inhabitants of what would be named the Americas migrated across this bridge in search of food. 
When the glaciers melted, water engulfed Beringia, and the Bering Strait was formed. 
Later settlers came by boat across the narrow strait. 
(The fact that Asians and American Indians share genetic markers on a Y chromosome lends credibility to this migration theory.) 
Continually moving southward, the settlers eventually populated both North and South America, creating unique cultures that ranged from the highly complex and urban Aztec civilization in what is now Mexico City to the woodland tribes of eastern North America. 
Recent research along the west coast of South America suggests that migrant populations may have traveled down this coast by water as well as by land. 
Researchers believe that about ten thousand years ago, humans also began the domestication of plants and animals, adding agriculture as a means of sustenance to hunting and gathering techniques. 
With this agricultural revolution, and the more abundant and reliable food supplies it brought, populations grew and people were able to develop a more settled way of life, building permanent settlements. 
Nowhere in the Americas was this more obvious than in Mesoamerica (Figure 1.3). 
Figure 1.3 
This map shows the extent of the major civilizations of the Western Hemisphere. 
In South America, early civilizations developed along the coast because the high Andes and the inhospitable Amazon Basin made the interior of the continent less favorable for settlement. 
THE FIRST AMERICANS: THE OLMEC 
Mesoamerica is the geographic area stretching from north of Panama up to the desert of central Mexico. 
Although marked by great topographic, linguistic, and cultural diversity, this region cradled a number of civilizations with similar characteristics. 
Mesoamericans were polytheistic; their gods possessed both male and female traits and demanded blood sacrifices of enemies taken in battle or ritual bloodletting. 
Corn, or maize, domesticated by 5000 BCE, formed the basis of their diet. 
They developed a mathematical system, built huge edifices, and devised a calendar that accurately predicted eclipses and solstices and that priest-astronomers used to direct the planting and harvesting of crops. 
Most important for our knowledge of these peoples, they created the only known written language in the Western Hemisphere; researchers have made much progress in interpreting the inscriptions on their temples and pyramids. 
Though the area had no overarching political structure, trade over long distances helped diffuse culture. 
Weapons made of obsidian, jewelry crafted from jade, feathers woven into clothing and ornaments, and cacao beans that were whipped into a chocolate drink formed the basis of commerce. 
The mother of Mesoamerican cultures was the Olmec civilization. 
Flourishing along the hot Gulf Coast of Mexico from about 1200 to about 400 BCE, the Olmec produced a number of major works of art, architecture, pottery, and sculpture. 
Most recognizable are their giant head sculptures (Figure 1.4) and the pyramid in La Venta. 
The Olmec built aqueducts to transport water into their cities and irrigate their fields. 
They grew maize, squash, beans, and tomatoes. 
They also bred small domesticated dogs which, along with fish, provided their protein. 
Although no one knows what happened to the Olmec after about 400 BCE, in part because the jungle reclaimed many of their cities, their culture was the base upon which the Maya and the Aztec built. 
It was the Olmec who worshipped a rain god, a maize god, and the feathered serpent so important in the future pantheons of the Aztecs (who called him Quetzalcoatl) and the Maya (to whom he was Kukulkan). 
The Olmec also developed a system of trade throughout Mesoamerica, giving rise to an elite class. 
Figure 1.4 
The Olmec carved heads from giant boulders that ranged from four to eleven feet in height and could weigh up to fifty tons. 
All these figures have flat noses, slightly crossed eyes, and large lips. 
These physical features can be seen today in some of the peoples indigenous to the area. 
THE MAYA 
After the decline of the Olmec, a city rose in the fertile central highlands of Mesoamerica. 
One of the largest population centers in pre-Columbian America and home to more than 100,000 people at its height in about 500 CE, Teotihuacan was located about thirty miles northeast of modern Mexico City. 
The ethnicity of this settlement’s inhabitants is debated; some scholars believe it was a multiethnic city. 
Large-scale agriculture and the resultant abundance of food allowed time for people to develop special trades and skills other than farming. 
Builders constructed over twenty-two hundred apartment compounds for multiple families, as well as more than a hundred temples. 
Among these were the Pyramid of the Sun (which is two hundred feet high) and the Pyramid of the Moon (one hundred and fifty feet high). 
Near the Temple of the Feathered Serpent, graves have been uncovered that suggest humans were sacrificed for religious purposes. 
The city was also the center for trade, which extended to settlements on Mesoamerica’s Gulf Coast. 
The Maya were one Mesoamerican culture that had strong ties to Teotihuacan. 
The Maya’s architectural and mathematical contributions were significant. 
Flourishing from roughly 2000 BCE to 900 CE in what is now Mexico, Belize, Honduras, and Guatemala, the Maya perfected the calendar and written language the Olmec had begun. 
They devised a written mathematical system to record crop yields and the size of the population, and to assist in trade. 
Surrounded by farms relying on primitive agriculture, they built the city-states of Copan, Tikal, and Chichen Itza along their major trade routes, as well as temples, statues of gods, pyramids, and astronomical observatories (Figure 1.5). 
However, because of poor soil and a drought that lasted nearly two centuries, their civilization declined by about 900 CE and they abandoned their large population centers. 
Figure 1.5 
El Castillo, located at Chichen Itza in the eastern Yucatán peninsula, served as a temple for the god Kukulkan. 
Each side contains ninety-one steps to the top. 
When counting the top platform, the total number of stairs is three hundred and sixty-five, the number of days in a year. 
(credit: Ken Thomas) 
The Spanish found little organized resistance among the weakened Maya upon their arrival in the 1520s. 
However, they did find Mayan history, in the form of glyphs, or pictures representing words, recorded in folding books called codices (the singular is codex). 
In 1562, Bishop Diego de Landa, who feared the converted natives had reverted to their traditional religious practices, collected and burned every codex he could find. 
Today only a few survive. 
Key Terms 
Beringia 
an ancient land bridge linking Asia and North America 
Review Questions 
1. Which of the following Indian peoples built homes in cliff dwellings that still exist? 
A. Anasazi 
B. Cherokee 
C. Aztec 
D. Inca 
2. Which culture developed the first writing system in the Western Hemisphere? 
A. Inca 
B. Maya 
C. Olmec 
D. Pueblo 
Ethnocentrism and Cultural Relativism 
Despite how much humans have in common, cultural differences are far more prevalent than cultural universals. 
For example, while all cultures have language, analysis of particular language structures and conversational etiquette reveal tremendous differences. 
In some Middle Eastern cultures, it is common to stand close to others in conversation. 
North Americans keep more distance and maintain a large “personal space.” 
Even something as simple as eating and drinking varies greatly from culture to culture. 
If your professor comes into an early morning class holding a mug of liquid, what do you assume she is drinking? 
In the United States, it’s most likely filled with coffee, not Earl Grey tea, a favorite in England, or Yak Butter tea, a staple in Tibet. 
The way cuisines vary across cultures fascinates many people. 
Some travelers pride themselves on their willingness to try unfamiliar foods, like celebrated food writer Anthony Bourdain, while others return home expressing gratitude for their native culture’s fare. 
Often, people in the United States express disgust at other cultures’ cuisine and think that it’s gross to eat meat from a dog or guinea pig, for example, while they don’t question their own habit of eating cows or pigs. 
Such attitudes are an example of ethnocentrism, or evaluating and judging another culture based on how it compares to one’s own cultural norms. 
Ethnocentrism, as sociologist William Graham Sumner (1906) described the term, involves a belief or attitude that one’s own culture is better than all others. 
Almost everyone is a little bit ethnocentric. 
For example, Americans tend to say that people from England drive on the “wrong” side of the road, rather than on the “other” side. 
Someone from a country where dog meat is standard fare might find it off - putting to see a dog in a French restaurant — not on the menu, but as a pet and patron’s companion. 
A good example of ethnocentrism is referring to parts of Asia as the "Far East." 
One might question, "Far east of where?" 
A high level of appreciation for one’s own culture can be healthy; a shared sense of community pride, for example, connects people in a society. 
But ethnocentrism can lead to disdain or dislike for other cultures and could cause misunderstanding and conflict. 
People with the best intentions sometimes travel to a society to “help” its people, because they see them as uneducated or backward-essentially inferior. 
In reality, these travelers are guilty of cultural imperialism, the deliberate imposition of one’s own cultural values on another culture. 
Europe’s colonial expansion, begun in the sixteenth century, was often accompanied by a severe cultural imperialism. 
European colonizers often viewed the people in the lands they colonized as uncultured savages who were in need of European governance, dress, religion, and other cultural practices. 
A more modern example of cultural imperialism may include the work of international aid agencies who introduce agricultural methods and plant species from developed countries while overlooking indigenous varieties and agricultural approaches that are better suited to the particular region. 
Ethnocentrism can be so strong that when confronted with all of the differences of a new culture, one may experience disorientation and frustration. 
In sociology, we call this culture shock. 
A traveler from Chicago might find the nightly silence of rural Montana unsettling, not peaceful. 
An exchange student from China might be annoyed by the constant interruptions in class as other students ask questions—a practice that is considered rude in China. 
Perhaps the Chicago traveler was initially captivated with Montana’s quiet beauty and the Chinese student was originally excited to see a U.S.-style classroom firsthand. 
But as they experience unanticipated differences from their own culture, their excitement gives way to discomfort and doubts about how to behave appropriately in the new situation. 
Eventually, as people learn more about a culture, they recover from culture shock. 
Culture shock may appear because people aren’t always expecting cultural differences. 
Anthropologist Ken Barger (1971) discovered this when he conducted a participatory observation in an Inuit community in the Canadian Arctic. 
Originally from Indiana, Barger hesitated when invited to join a local snowshoe race. 
He knew he’d never hold his own against these experts. 
Sure enough, he finished last, to his mortification. 
But the tribal members congratulated him, saying, “You really tried!” 
In Barger’s own culture, he had learned to value victory. 
To the Inuit people, winning was enjoyable, but their culture valued survival skills essential to their environment: how hard someone tried could mean the difference between life and death. 
Over the course of his stay, Barger participated in caribou hunts, learned how to take shelter in winter storms, and sometimes went days with little or no food to share among tribal members. 
Trying hard and working together, two nonmaterial values, were indeed much more important than winning. 
During his time with the Inuit tribe, Barger learned to engage in cultural relativism. 
Cultural relativism is the practice of assessing a culture by its own standards rather than viewing it through the lens of one’s own culture. 
Practicing cultural relativism requires an open mind and a willingness to consider, and even adapt to, new values and norms. 
However, indiscriminately embracing everything about a new culture is not always possible. 
Even the most culturally relativist people from egalitarian societies—ones in which women have political rights and control over their own bodies—would question whether the widespread practice of female genital mutilation in countries such as Ethiopia and Sudan should be accepted as a part of cultural tradition. 
Sociologists attempting to engage in cultural relativism, then, may struggle to reconcile aspects of their own culture with aspects of a culture that they are studying. 
Sometimes when people attempt to rectify feelings of ethnocentrism and develop cultural relativism, they swing too far to the other end of the spectrum. 
Xenocentrism is the opposite of ethnocentrism, and refers to the belief that another culture is superior to one’s own. 
(The Greek root word xeno, pronounced “ZEE-no,” means “stranger” or “foreign guest.”) 
An exchange student who goes home after a semester abroad or a sociologist who returns from the field may find it difficult to associate with the values of their own culture after having experienced what they deem a more upright or nobler way of living. 
24.2 Spacetime and Gravity 
LEARNING OBJECTIVES 
By the end of this section, you will be able to: 
Describe Einstein’s view of gravity as the warping of spacetime in the presence of massive objects 
Understand that Newton’s concept of the gravitational force between two massive objects and Einstein’s concept of warped spacetime are different explanations for the same observed accelerations of one massive object in the presence of another massive object 
Is light actually bent from its straight-line path by the mass of Earth? 
How can light, which has no mass, be affected by gravity? 
Einstein preferred to think that it is space and time that are affected by the presence of a large mass; light beams, and everything else that travels through space and time, then find their paths affected. 
Light always follows the shortest path—but that path may not always be straight. 
This idea is true for human travel on the curved surface of planet Earth, as well. 
Say you want to fly from Chicago to Rome. 
Since an airplane can’t go through the solid body of the Earth, the shortest distance is not a straight line but the arc of a great circle. 
Linkages: Mass, Space, and Time 
To show what Einstein’s insight really means, let’s first consider how we locate an event in space and time. 
For example, imagine you have to describe to worried school officials the fire that broke out in your room when your roommate tried cooking shish kebabs in the fireplace. 
You explain that your dorm is at 6400 College Avenue, a street that runs in the left-right direction on a map of your town; you are on the fifth floor, which tells where you are in the up-down direction; and you are the sixth room back from the elevator, which tells where you are in the forward-backward direction. 
Then you explain that the fire broke out at 6:23 p.m. (but was soon brought under control), which specifies the event in time. 
Any event in the universe, whether nearby or far away, can be pinpointed using the three dimensions of space and the one dimension of time. 
Newton considered space and time to be completely independent, and that continued to be the accepted view until the beginning of the twentieth century. 
But Einstein showed that there is an intimate connection between space and time, and that only by considering the two together—in what we call spacetime—can we build up a correct picture of the physical world. 
We examine spacetime a bit more closely in the next subsection. 
The gist of Einstein’s general theory is that the presence of matter curves or warps the fabric of spacetime. 
This curving of spacetime is identified with gravity. 
When something else—a beam of light, an electron, or the starship Enterprise—enters such a region of distorted spacetime, its path will be different from what it would have been in the absence of the matter. 
As American physicist John Wheeler summarized it: “Matter tells spacetime how to curve; spacetime tells matter how to move.” 
The amount of distortion in spacetime depends on the mass of material that is involved and on how concentrated and compact it is. 
Terrestrial objects, such as the book you are reading, have far too little mass to introduce any significant distortion. 
Newton’s view of gravity is just fine for building bridges, skyscrapers, or amusement park rides. 
General relativity does, however, have some practical applications. 
The GPS (Global Positioning System) in every smartphone can tell you where you are within 5 to 10 meters only because the effects of general and special relativity on the GPS satellites in orbit around the Earth are taken into account. 
Unlike a book or your roommate, stars produce measurable distortions in spacetime. 
A white dwarf, with its stronger surface gravity, produces more distortion just above its surface than does a red giant with the same mass. 
So, you see, we are eventually going to talk about collapsing stars again, but not before discussing Einstein’s ideas (and the evidence for them) in more detail. 
Spacetime Examples 
How can we understand the distortion of spacetime by the presence of some (significant) amount of mass? 
Let’s try the following analogy. 
You may have seen maps of New York City that squeeze the full three dimensions of this towering metropolis onto a flat sheet of paper and still have enough information so tourists will not get lost. 
Let’s do something similar with diagrams of spacetime. 
Figure 24.7, for example, shows the progress of a motorist driving east on a stretch of road in Kansas where the countryside is absolutely flat. 
Since our motorist is traveling only in the east-west direction and the terrain is flat, we can ignore the other two dimensions of space. 
The amount of time elapsed since he left home is shown on the y-axis, and the distance traveled eastward is shown on the x-axis. 
From A to B he drove at a uniform speed; unfortunately, it was too fast a uniform speed and a police car spotted him. 
From B to C he stopped to receive his ticket and made no progress through space, only through time. 
From C to D he drove more slowly because the police car was behind him. 
Figure 24.7 
Spacetime Diagram. 
This diagram shows the progress of a motorist traveling east across the flat Kansas landscape. 
Distance traveled is plotted along the horizontal axis. 
The time elapsed since the motorist left the starting point is plotted along the vertical axis. 
Now let’s try illustrating the distortions of spacetime in two dimensions. 
In this case, we will (in our imaginations) use a rubber sheet that can stretch or warp if we put objects on it. 
Let’s imagine stretching our rubber sheet taut on four posts. 
To complete the analogy, we need something that normally travels in a straight line (as light does). 
Suppose we have an extremely intelligent ant—a friend of the comic book superhero Ant-Man, perhaps—that has been trained to walk in a straight line. 
We begin with just the rubber sheet and the ant, simulating empty space with no mass in it. 
We put the ant on one side of the sheet and it walks in a beautiful straight line over to the other side (Figure 24.8). 
We next put a small grain of sand on the rubber sheet. 
The sand does distort the sheet a tiny bit, but this is not a distortion that we or the ant can measure. 
If we send the ant so it goes close to, but not on top of, the sand grain, it has little trouble continuing to walk in a straight line. 
Now we grab something with a little more mass—say, a small pebble. 
It bends or distorts the sheet just a bit around its position. 
If we send the ant into this region, it finds its path slightly altered by the distortion of the sheet. 
The distortion is not large, but if we follow the ant’s path carefully, we notice it deviating slightly from a straight line. 
The effect gets more noticeable as we increase the mass of the object that we put on the sheet. 
Let’s say we now use a massive paperweight. 
Such a heavy object distorts or warps the rubber sheet very effectively, putting a good sag in it. 
From our point of view, we can see that the sheet near the paperweight is no longer straight. 
