The Chatham Islands 
The Chatnam Islands (Rekohu in the indigenous Moriori language) are the eastern-most settled islands in New Zealand. 
The islands are in their own time zone, 45 minutes ahead of New Zealand time; 
the International Date Line jogs eastward to keep them on the same calendar day as the rest of New Zealand. 
The islands lie 860 km east of Christchurch, in the middle of the "Roaring Forties". 
Steeped in culture and history, these islands are on the very edge of civilisation. 
Experience Moriori culture, experience Rekohu. 
Understand 
The Chatham Islands consist of the main island, Chatham Island itself, with a population of 600, smaller Pitt Island with about 40 inhabitants, and a number of rocky outcrops. 
The islands are volcanic in origin and have a unique and sensitive habitat that supports many rare and endangered species. 
The original people of the islands are the Moriori, who were descended from the Maori of mainland New Zealand, but who developed their own culture and variant of the language. 
In 1835 Maori settlers from the mainland arrived, massacred and enslaved the Moriori. 
Get in 
By plane 
The only way for visitors to travel to the Chathams is via scheduled or chartered air service. 
Air Chathams fly 5 days per week, from either Christchurch, Auckland or Wellington and, seasonally, from Napier. 
The plane is based in the Chathams and flies to mainland New Zealand in the morning, then back to the Chathams in the afternoon. 
As part of New Zealand, there are no passport or visa requirements and no border controls on arrival from the mainland. 
You should book or ensure accommodation before you board a flight for the Chathams, as during the popular months of the tourism season, between October and April, accommodation can be severely limited. 
There are no same-day return flights, so once there you have to stay at least one night. 
Although flying to the Chathams and back is not cheap, it is worth it. 
Even the mainland school groups that fly there for school camps, and choose to stay at Kopinga Marae [1] get value for money by chartering a flight one way. 
Anyway, you don't have a choice on how you get there, unless you happen to own an aeroplane. 
However, when you get off that aeroplane, if you haven't pre-organised transport, you will have to walk, and it is a long way into town. 
By boat 
The only scheduled shipping service to the Chatham Islands remains the Black Robin Freighters "Rangatira", an antiquated, slow and small coastal trading vessel. 
This boat has serviced the islands for many years, but does not carry passengers. 
Freight charges on the Rangatira appear to be flexible and subject to change. 
Vessels can call at the Chathams and there are a number of "safe" harbours for shelter if the need arises. 
Remember to notify the local policeman, or Ministry of Fisheries officer if you are entering New Zealand via the Chathams. 
If you want a wharf berthage then call the local harbour master as you near the Chathams and he will sort you out. 
Get around 
There are several businesses on Chatham Island that will rent you a vehicle. 
Do not expect the flashest and latest in rental cars though. 
The cars "will" be warranted and safe, but they won't be exceptionally "flash". 
Chatham Motors have a range of nice rental vans available as well and they provide pretty good service for both visitors and locals. 
See 
Basalt columns 
Some of the world's most rare and endangered birds, plants and insects. 
Unique tree carvings done by the peaceful Moriori people hundreds of years ago. 
Henga Scenic Reserve. 
Set adjacent to Henga Lodge is the magnificent Henga Scenic Reserve. 
Guests of the lodge can meander around either a short easy walk, or take the longer 2 hr return walk out onto the spectacular beach. 
Access is free to Lodge guests. 
Hapupu National Historic Scenic Reserve. 
One of only two National Historic Scenic Reserves in New Zealand (the other is the Waitangi Treaty Grounds), Hapupu is a special place, and somewhere that you will want to tell others about. 
Spiritually and culturally important to Moriori, it holds the last known concentration of momori-rakau, or tree carvings done by the ancestors of today's Moriori. 
There are many views on why they did these carvings, but whatever the reason, you will find them a very special attraction. 
Port Hutt. 
One of the most scenicly attractive ports in the whole of New Zealand, Port Hutt boasts an incredibly sheltered little harbour, with picturesque views and safe anchorage in all weather. 
Historically important and economically crucial for these islands today, Port Hutt is the ideal location for a short browse around and a mecca for those photography buffs [2]. 
Kopinga Marae. 
If you could define a place that will remind you of your visit to the Chathams, then this very special place will be at the top of your list. 
Opened in 2005, Kopinga is the official meeting place of Te Imi Moriori. 
Adorned with contemporary Moriori carvings and traditional taonga (treasures), the marae is a magnificent, tasteful and contemporary testament to the ancestors of Te Imi Moriori. 
Enjoy a guided tour of this beautiful and peaceful building. 
School-Camps At Kopinga Marae [3] also utilise this wonderful national treasure for hosting visiting school groups. 
Tommy Solomon Statue. 
Tame Horomona Rehe was the last known full-blooded Moriori and he passed away in 1933. 
He was however, not the last Moriori. 
His own descendants and the descendants of other Moriori live on today. 
Come and have a look at this statue, erected in 1985 to commemorate his passing. 
Come and see Manakau, the property of his descendants, located on the eastern corner of Rekohu and blessed with the sun's first rays as they rise above the sea each day. 
Cleveland is a culturally diverse city on the shores of Lake Erie, one of the Great Lakes, in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, USA. 
Recreational, cultural and educational opportunities are abundant throughout Northeast Ohio. 
Youll find world-class museums and cultural events, professional sports and amusement parks, and the most golf courses per capita in the United States. 
Places Rated Almanac ranks the area second in recreational options out of 354 US metro areas. 
Plus, this region ranks fifth in the nation in number of major cultural resources per one million residents. 
Understand 
Cleveland from lakefront. 
Cleveland is the urban center of Northeast Ohio, the 15th largest combined metropolitan area in the United States. 
Throughout the twentieth century, the City of Cleveland proper was ranked as one of the 10 largest cities in the U.S. (from 1890 until 1970 per US Census Bureau statistics). 
Like most U.S. cities, Cleveland proper began to lose population to suburban areas in the 1960s and 1970s. 
However, in the mid-1980s, Cleveland earned the nickname the "Comeback City" as the urban core experienced a dramatic revitalization process that continues today. 
As its "comeback" has continued, the official moniker is now the New American City as Cleveland has rightfully earned the reputation as a model of effective public-private partnership for urban planning. 
Despite the common perception that Cleveland is an industrial town, just beyond the automotive and steel plants, a clean and beautiful downtown rises at the mouth of the Cuyahoga River on the southern shore of Lake Erie (often marvelled over by visitors who are surprised you can't see the other side, i.e., Canada). 
Like other cities in the so-called "rust belt“, Cleveland has endured growing pains as it makes its transition from a manufacturing-based economy. 
While Cleveland continues to play a leading role in building the U.S. industrial base, it has also developed economic prowess in the fields of health care, law, finance, insurance, real estate development, and professional services. 
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum 
Another thing non-locals don't often realize is that Cleveland's long history of industrial wealth has left it chock full of cultural riches as well as the beginnings of a "sustainable city" movement. 
Serving as a global model for urban rebirth, Cleveland has been named one of the top 10 international visitor hotspots by Travel and Leisure magazine. 
For decades, the city has boasted of: a "Big Five" orchestra (The Cleveland Orchestra), the second largest performing arts center in the U.S. (Playhouse Square Center), a world-renowned art museum (The Cleveland Museum of Art), the nation's first health museum (HealthSpace Cleveland), R&D hub of the aerospace and aviation industry (the NASA Glenn Research & Visitors Center) and a number of other first-rate attractions (too many to mention here - read on). 
During its "comeback" years, Cleveland has added: the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, the Great Lakes Science Center with Omnimax theatre, and four new sports facilities in the downtown area - Progressive Field (Still known as "The Jake" after a recent corporate name change) for the Major League Baseball Indians, QuickenLoans Arena ("The Q") for the NBA Cavaliers, Cleveland Browns Stadium for the NFL Browns and the Wolstein Center for the Cleveland State University Vikings basketball team. 
Get in 
For information specific to U.S. citizens see Americans in Cuba 
Visa and legal issues 
A tourist visa card (visa de tarjeta del turista) is necessary for travelers from most nations. 
This visa, which is really little more than a piece of paper on which you list your vital statistics, costs between 15 - 25 CUC (or € 15 - 25), depending on where purchased. 
It can be purchased at the Airport in Cuba on arrival, however it should be noted that many airlines will require a valid tourist visa card before boarding flights. 
It is usually valid for 30 days and can be extended once for another 30 days at any immigration office in Cuba (for 25 CUC) - beyond this you would need a flight out of Cuba within the extended visa period. 
Canadians are the exception, getting 90 days on arrival and can apply for a 90 day extension. 
Your passport needs to be valid at least six months past the end of your planned return. 
Canadian passports must be valid for at least one month beyond the date of expected departure ([2]). 
From Canada, the tourist card is normally provided on the flight. 
It can also be purchased from most Latin American gateway airports if departing from there (Cancun: 250 MXN, Mexico City: USD 25). 
Please note that if departing from Europe (this may apply to other countries), you will require to have the visa before boarding the plane. 
Some times, the airline provides these at the airport, however check first that this is the case. 
Without a valid visa, boarding will be denied (the airline would otherwise get a $ 1,000 fine from the Cuban immigration authorities). 
Country-specific advise 
UK: Applying for the visa is a very simple process and can be done by post or in person at the Cuban embassy in London. 
When applying to the Cuban Consulate by post, there is a new charge introduced in 2011 which is a £ 25 for a non-personal transaction. 
If you cannot go to the Cuban Consulate you may consider using VisaCuba ([3]) because it may be cheaper. 
Through them it may cost £ 20 in total per person. 
If you apply in person to the Cuban Consulate, you get the visa straight away. 
It can also be done through online agencies as mentioned before although they may be slightly more expensive (normally £ 15 + £ 15 admin fee and additional postage). 
Germany: You can obtain the tourist card through the Cuban embassy in post. 
Travel agencies may often offer cheaper and quicker services though. 
Regular tourists who renew their 30 day visa are eligible to depart the country (to any destination) and return immediately enjoying a further 60 days (30 days plus a 30 day extension). 
You are only allowed two consecutive stays in this manner. 
If you want to stay with friends or family in Cuba you have to go with your intended host within two days after arrival to a migration office and pay 40 CUC for a 30 days family visa. 
Citizens of Antigua and Barbuda (28 days), Barbados (28 days), Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, CIS (except Ukraine and Uzbekistan), Dominica, Grenada (60 days), Liechtenstein (90 days), Macedonia, Malaysia (90 days), Mongolia, Montenegro (90 days), Namibia, Singapore, Slovakia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Serbia (90 days), Turkmenistan who can stay 30 days without visa. 
(The source of the previous sentence is unknown. 
Aeromexico staff at Cancun airport claim that only citizens of China and Russia need no visa. 
It is important to note that there is also a departure tax of CUC 25, to be paid in cash when departing Cuba by airplane; this is not required for boat departures. 
This tax is not well publicized but it is essential to remember it. 
You will run into significant difficulties if you do not have enough cash to pay this tax when leaving the country. 
An ATM and currency exchange are available at Havana airport, but these facilities are not as reliable in Cuba as in other places. 
Cuban customs can be strict, though they sometimes go easy on tourists. 
Fort Lee 
Fort Lee is a city in Bergen County. 
View of the George Washington Bridge's long span and Manhattan, as seen while looking east from Fort Lee Historic Park 
Understand 
Fort Lee is located between the Paramus, NJ retail corridor and Upper Manhattan. 
This town is comprised of a large residential community that includes Fort Lee natives, transplants from New York, and immigrants, especially from Korea. 
This cultural diversity is represented through the vast variety of international restaurants and small business, and in particular, there is a strong Korean presence that can be seen in retail and dining storefronts. 
Fort Lee is a small town but is piled high with apartment buildings. 
Because Fort Lee is situated above the banks of the Hudson River, there are breathtaking views from almost any window facing the river. 
The New York City skyline and 4th of July fireworks are spectacular over the river. 
Although it is highly built up, Fort Lee also houses many playing fields and recreational parks as well as bike and running trails. 
And although there is a great deal of vehicle traffic to and from the George Washington Bridge, which connects Fort Lee with Manhattan, one of the largest perks of this town is the walking access to many restaurants, convenience stores and mass transit, in the form of buses and vans that frequently run across the bridge and up and down major streets. 
Get in 
One of the more interesting of the many highrise residential buildings in Fort Lee 
Fort Lee is bordered by Edgewater, Englewood Cliffs, Cliffside Park and Leonia. 
By car 
If coming from New York City, take the George Washington Bridge; 
Fort Lee is the first town on the New Jersey side of the bridge. 
By bus or jitney 
Ask any bus or jitney driver leaving from the Port Authority George Washington Bus Station on 177 St. whether s/he can let you off in Fort Lee. 
By ferry 
Fort Lee can also be accessed by boat or ferry from New York City via Edgewater and Weehawken docks. 
By plane 
The nearest airports to Fort Lee are Newark Airport, LaGuardia Airport, Teterboro (general aviation only), JFK and Westchester County Airport. 
Get around 
Old and new meet in Fort Lee, as the Good Shepherd Episcopalian Church is dwarfed by a residential highrise immediately behind it 
Most people choose cars, but if headed to a central area, such as Main Street, it is best to drive there, park in a municipal parking lot, and walk around from there. 
Since so much of the town’s retail area is clustered in 3 or 4 block radius, it would be beneficial to walk around, but might also be dangerous given the high traffic intersections. 
If walking use caution, and if parking, make sure to feed the meter with plenty of pocket change; the meter maids take their job very seriously. 
Since fort lee is situated in such a convenient area for those commuting to and from the city, there is often high traffic and congestion on the roads. 
If you are planning on being somewhere at a certain time, one might suggest leaving a good 10 to 15 minutes to escape local traffic before hitting any major roadways. 
For local transportation or air-port / train station services, there are several local taxi companies that are reliable. 
A-1 2470 Lemoine Avenue, tel: 1 201 944-3737. 
Babe's 185 Bridge Plaza North, tel: 1 201 944-6800. 
G W Taxi 1696 Bergen Blvd, tel: 1 201 363-0555. 
See 
Fort Lee Historic Park, a reconstruction of a Revolutionary War encampment, with beautiful views and pleasant greenery 
Fort Lee is known and named for the story of how General George Washington was forced to evacuate the area in November of 1776 and begin his famous retreat through New Jersey during the winter of 1776-77 in the protection of "Fort Lee". 
The Visitors' Center provides information on the role of Fort Lee in the War. 
Audio-visual displays, detailed exhibits, gives visitors a sense of what this town was like centuries ago. 
Fort Lee Historic Park, Hudson Terrace, tel: 1 201 461-1776. 
Revolutionary re-enactments, and breathtaking views of the GW Bridge, the Little Red Light House, Hudson River and majestic city skyline. 
The George Washington Bridge can be crossed by bicycle or on foot as well as in a motorized vehicle. 
Do 
Fort Lee's Public School 4, a daily activity for the elementary school set 
Other than eating, or shopping, or shopping for food, there is not much else to do unless you work in Fort Lee. 
Fort Lee also has a great community center open to all borough residents. 
The community center has dance, yoga, and other exercise classes, offers open gym hours for basketball or other recreation. 
During the summer their outdoor theatre is used for performances and "movies in the park" every Friday night. 
Jack Alter Fort Lee Community Center, 1355 Inwood Terrace, tel: 1 201-592-4699, contact for membership information, and upcoming events. 
Buy 
There is an abundance of supermarkets, one the most famous and unique being Caffasso’s Fairway Market. 
There are also many nail salons, frozen yogurt shops, coffee shops and gas stations. 
Cafasso's Fairway Market 1214 Anderson Ave, 1 201-224-7900. 
Store hours: Mon-Fri 08:30 am - 7 pm, Sat 08:30 am - 06:30 pm, Sun 9 am - 03:00 pm 
Main Street is the primary retail section of Fort Lee, and features stores such as Borders and liquor stores, and you can find a deli or drug store on every corner. 
There are tons of specialty boutiques and gourmet caterers, as well as clothing and sporting good retailers. 
Also on Main St. is Metropolitan Plants, a haven for flower lovers, with a very large selection of products for gardeners. 
Eat 
Within Fort Lee, the main attraction would be its collection of restaurants. 
Fort Lee offers international cuisine and is famous for their pizzerias, delis and 24-hour diners, in addition to its Korean restaurants. 
They have a warm local atmosphere and taste great. 
Guadeloupe 
Guadeloupe, known as Gwadloup in the local creole, and sometimes known as the Butterfly Island (French: I'ile Papillon) on account of the shape of two of its major islands, is a group of islands in the eastern Caribbean, and is a French overseas department. 
It is located southeast of Puerto Rico. 
Islands 
Basse Terre: green and lush vegetation, mountainous with a sulphuric volcano. 
Grande Terre: flat and dry with a lot of beaches, some of them very touristic. 
Marie Galante: the biggest island out of mainland Guadeloupe. 
Les Saintes: composed of Terre de Haut and Terre de Bas, one of the most beautiful bays. 
La Désirade: dry and cliffy. 
Petite Terre: uninhabited and untamed. 
Cities 
Grande Terre 
Map of Guadeloupe 
Pointe-à-Pitre: with its suburbs, it is the economic capital of Guadeloupe 
Gosier: maybe one of the most interesting places of Guadeloupe to enjoy nightlife. 
(You can enter most nightclubs with proper clothes, that is, no sneakers, no shorts) 
St François if you go at the eastern point of Guadeloupe, you will reach La Pointe des Chateaux, a scenery made of sand and rocks which have vaguely the shape of a castle. 
From there, you can look up at the islands La Désirade, Petite Terre, Marie Galante, Les Saintes, La Dominique but also have a perfect view of the islands Grande Terre and far away Basse Terre. 
St Anne a very nice but also very touristy city and beach (maybe the tourists primary area of Guadeloupe). 
L'Americano, bd Georges Mandel, 0590883899: bar / restaurant offers free salsa courses on Saturdays and live performances some days. 
You will find all kind of bars. 
You can try Club Med, 0590854950 fax: 0590854959 (for instance, others resort may propose this formula too) for a one day all inclusive (breakfast, buffet, bars, drinks, beach volley, windsurf, boat, gym, dance courses ...) for about € 46, so it may be a good deal (as it costs € 7 one hour of windsurf). 
Morne à l'eau, renowned for its amazing cemetery composed of burial places made of black and white tiles. 
Anse Bertrand, not far from there, you can visit La pointe de la Grande Vigie, northern point of mainland Guadeloupe. 
You can also go to Porte d'Enfer, a beautiful still stripe of sea between a scenery of reefs. 
From there, walk one hour along the cliff, and you will discover a Souffleur, kind of geyser due to the pressure of the sea. 
Abymes nothing special to see, but the weekend, there are 3 local nightclubs: L'instant, Caraibes and Latin Club. 
They are located at the same place. 
Baie-Mahault: the industrial and commercial zone of Guadeloupe, nothing special to do or see. 
Here stands the biggest shopping mall of the island. 
Not too far from there, you can find a local bar / nightclub named Bik Kreyol, Beau Soleil, 0590258046 or 0590920648 (Entrance € 5, Drinks € 3). 
Local music (ragga, zouk, rnb) and local customers. 
The building is typical, it's a former warehouse. 
Other destinations 
Don't miss the spectacular waterfalls in the jungle of Basse-Terre (Carbet Falls). 
Some are within 5 – 10 minutes walking distance from the nearest parking lot, some require at least 3 – 4 hours of hiking (those are, of course less frequented by other tourists and you might find yourself alone at a spectacular waterfall in the middle of nowhere - an amazing experience!). 
The local rum distilleries offer tours (check for opening times as they may very from season to season) which are certainly worth the while since rum production is a very integral part of Guadeloupe's economy. 
And sampling the local rums is definitely worth the while. 
Even though they might not be the best way to get around the island, a ride on the bus is still an experience you should not miss. 
Cheap, full of locals, conducted by fearless drivers, you can enjoy the beautiful Caribbean panorama to the sound of Guadeloupean zouk music. 
Some routes are not good for passengers with weak stomachs. 
Isfahan 
Isfahan (Persian: اصفهان, also known as Esfahan) is a city in central Iran, south of Tehran and is the capital of Isfahan Province. 
The Persians call it "Nesf-e-Jahan", meaning "Half The World". 
Due to its beautiful hand-painted tiling and magnificent public square, it is considered to be one of the most beautiful cities in the world. 
An ancient town and capital of Persia from 1598 to 1722, it was long noted for its fine carpets and silver filigree. 
Today, textile and steel mills take their place. 
Its architecture, tree-lined boulevards and relaxed pace make it one of the highlights of Iran. 
Understand 
The city is 430km south of Tehran at the foothills of the Zagros mountain range. 
The city enjoys a temperate climate and regular seasons. 
Isfahan is located on the main north-south and east-west routes crossing Iran. 
The city has an Armenian Quarter called Jolfa (originally called New Julfa) established by Shah Abbas I in the 1600s after he destroyed the prosperous Armenian town of Julfa in Armenia and forced all of the Armenians to move to Persia, mostly to Isfahan. 
They were allocated land and rebuilt a prosperous community that was a key part of an Armenian trade network extending from Singapore and India to Venice and Amsterdam. 
Today the quarter still has many Armenian Churches, an Armenian school, shops and Armenian residents. 
Get in 
By plane 
Isfahan International Airport or Isfahan Shahid Beheshti (IATA: IFN) was a military air base before the revolution. 
There are daily flights to Tehran and Mashhad in Iran. 
There are also flights to Damascus, Dubai, Kuwait and Istanbul. 
From the Airport you can take cab for c. IRR200,000 to the city centre. 
Since most people are going there anyway, you can always ask people to share taxi. 
See 
Squares and streets 
Naqsh-e Jahan Square 
1 Naqsh-e Jahan Square. 
Also known as shah square or imam square - 1602 (Meidan Emam). 
The square contains two mosques, a palace, and the bazaar. 
The square is the largest historical public square in the world after Tiananmen Square in Beijing and it is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 
The square is surrounded by buildings from the Safavid era. 
This a very popular place for locals to picnic on Friday and holiday evenings. 
2 Chaharbagh Boulevard. 
1596, dating from the Saffavid era, the avenue is the most historically famous in all of Persia. 
Meydan Kohne. 
Shahshahan Square. 
Mosques 
Shah Mosque 
Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque, interior of the dome 
The stunning mosques of Isfahan are among the most beautiful and interesting in the world. 
3 Imam Mosque (called Shah Mosque before the revolution), Naqsh-e Jahan Square, south side. 
Built during the Safavid period, it is an excellent example of Islamic architecture of Iran, and regarded as one of the masterpieces of Persian Architecture. 
It is registered as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 
Its splendour is mainly due to the beauty of its seven-colour mosaic tiles and calligraphic inscriptions. 
4 Sheikh Lotf Allah Mosque, Naqsh-e Jahan Square, east side. 
One of the architectural masterpieces of Safavid Iranian architecture, this mosque is considered to be the most beautiful in Iran. 
Built in 1602 by Shah Abbas I.= and designed by his chief architect, Sheikh Bahai. 
The mosque was designed to be a private mosque for the royal family and therefore it does not have any minarets. 
There is a tunnel from the mosque to the Royal Palace, across the square. 
5 Masjed-e Jāmé of Isfahan, north of Naqsh-e Jahan Square in the old quarter. 
Started in AD842, this is the first Islamic building to adopt the four-courtyard layout of Sassanid palaces. 
6 Hakim Mosque, Hakim (north of Naqsh-e Jahan in the old quarter). 
One of the oldest mosques in Isfahan. 
Built by Shah Abbas II between 1656 and 1662. 
Located on the site of a 10th century mosque. 
The portal was covered in mud until it was discovered in 1956. 
Palaces 
Ali Qapu Palace 
Chehel Sotoun 
7 Ālī Qāpū (The Royal Palace). 
Early 17th Century. 
It is forty-eight meters high and there are seven floors, each accessible by a difficult spiral staircase. 
In the sixth floor music room, deep circular niches are found in the walls, having not only aesthetic value, but also acoustic. 
It is rich in naturalistic wall paintings by Reza Abbassi, the court painter of Shah Abbas I, and his pupils. 
There are floral, animal and bird motifs. 
8 Hasht Behesht (The Palace of Eight Paradises). 
1669, reportedly built for residence purposes of the king's harem. 
Set within lush gardens which are free to roam if you don't want to go inside the building. 
9 Chehel Sotoun (The Palace of Forty Columns). 
1647: It is called Palace of forty columns, as there are many columns, and in Iranian, 40 means many. 
Incidentally, there are twenty columns, and these are reflected in the pool in front, which might also account for its name. 
The function of this palace was for holding religious-national ceremonies and royal festivals and for receiving royal ambassadors and guests. 
It's Persian Gardens is one of nine inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. 
Contains some spectacular battle murals. 
Łódź 
Łódź (Pronounced: Wootch) is Poland's third biggest city, and the capital of the Łódzkie Voivodship. 
Unlike most other large Polish cities, which have long histories, Łódź was created almost from scratch during the 19th century textile industry boom to house textile mills, their owners and their workers, and rapidly grew to become an important industrial and commerce centre. 
In recent years, Łódź has been battling rising unemployment and youth migration resulting from the failing textile industry and is repositioning itself as a hub for design and creative industries. 
Owing to its history, Łódź has an impressive collection of residential, commercial and industrial 19th-century architecture including some of Europe's largest factory buildings, now mostly repurposed as shopping centres or lofts. 
Recent local investment and a long-standing cultural scene ensures there is always something more to do than just sightseeing or shopping, with the city hosting some of the best museums and art galleries in the country. 
The close proximity of Warsaw and Łódź's location at the crossroads of the Polish motorway system make it an ideal destination for a day trip or longer city break. 
Understand 
Historic fire station in Księży Młyn area 
Name and history 
The origin of the city's name is unknown, however, the word łódź translates to "boat" in English. 
This is referred to in the emblem and when you hear the dwellers of Łódź (łodzianin (man) łodzianka (woman) łodzianie (plural)) calling themselves "the boat people". 
A settlement on the area of present-day Łódź was established in the 14th century and in 1423 it was granted a town charter, along with the right to have a marketplace. 
However, the real development of Łódź started with the industrial era at the beginning of the 19th century when the city was chosen to be the heart of the rapidly-growing textile industry. 
The population of Łódź soared from some 4,000 people in the 1830s and 40,000 in 1865 to over 300,000 inhabitants at the turn of the century, which was an unprecedented growth on a worldwide scale. 
The rapid development of Łódź in the second half of the 19th century was brought about by the rise of enormous industrialist fortunes. 
New inhabitants, craftsmen and merchants came to Łódź; markets and town fairs came to life. 
The profits obtained from prosperous textile mills opened up practically unlimited possibilities for their owners. 
The city residences became expressions of the riches and power of the local tycoons. 
They were usually situated next to the owner's factory. 
Ever since the industrial revolution brought a massive influx of workforce, Łódź had been a city almost equally divided between four cultures - Polish, Jewish, German and Russian. 
The day before the outbreak of World War II, Łódź was inhabited by approximately 672,000 people, among whom 35% were of Jewish faith and some 15% were ethnic German. 
Andrzej Wajda's movie, Promised Land based on a novel by the Nobel laureate Władysław Reymont, depicts those times and is a worthwhile introduction to the city's bustling history. 
During the Nazi occupation, Łódź was incorporated directly into the Third Reich. 
The city was renamed to Litzmannstadt, and Piotrkowska Street was called Adolf-Hitler-Strasse. 
The Jewish community was practically wiped out, and many others lost their lives. 
Although the city was not destroyed in the aftermath, the material losses were serious as the machinery, raw materials and finished goods were taken away by the fleeing Nazis. 
The day before the liberation, about 80,000 Germans left Łódź in panic. 
At the beginning of 1945, the population was estimated at 300,000. 
Plac Wolności 
Łódź today 
Since the fall of communism in Poland, Łódź has not enjoyed the rapid economic growth cities like Kraków, Warsaw and Wrocław have experienced, and has had to endure the fall of much of its textile industry, rising unemployment and emigration (within Poland and abroad). 
This led to further dilapidation of the investment-starved city, and many of its streets and buildings show profound signs of neglect. 
At first glance, for a city of 760,000 and agglomeration of 1.428,000, there does not seem to be much to see. 
However, the situation is rapidly changing now with Łódź campaigning and redesigning itself as an up-and-coming destination. 
To accomplish this, Łódź has been capitalizing on its film history - Łódź is jokingly referred to as the "HollyŁódź" of Poland and hosts several film festivals and many other cultural events. 
Łódź today may not have the glitz and glamour of its heyday; however, there is a certain charm to Łódź in its partially renovated façades and leitmotivs, not to mention its grand artistic traditions. 
Mérida 
Mérida is the capital of the state of Yucatán in Mexico. 
It has a population of about 750,000, and is the largest city in the Yucatán Peninsula. 
Catedral de San Ildefonso 
Zócalo or Main Plaza, with the Cathedral in the distance 
Understand 
Mérida is a city of contrasts. 
You will find elegant hotels, restaurants and malls in the northern part of the city. 
Downtown, there are hotels and restaurants to suit every budget. 
A large central market and numerous small shops are found all around the main plaza. 
Mérida has a rich cultural life which also reflects its diversity. 
Many free concerts, performances and other events are held daily. 
The city was founded by the Spanish conquistadors in the 1540s on top of a centuries-old Maya city called T'ho. 
The palatial home of the family of conquistador leader Montejo can still be seen on the south side of the Zócalo or main square. 
Here and there bits of ancient Maya stonework can be seen reused in Spanish Colonial era buildings in the old part of town. 
From the later 1800s to the 1920s Mérida enjoyed prosperous boom times fueled by the henequen or sisal plant harvest, which made Yucatán the rope maker to the world. 
Progressive Mérida had electric trams and street lights before Mexico City. 
The wealthy constructed the grand Pasejo Montejo avenue north of the old town, inspired by the Champs-Élysées in Paris. 
With the development of artificial twines the sisal boom ended, and Mérida slowed to a more sleepy provincial capital until development picked back up in the late 20th century. 
The city's ambiance is colonial and the climate is tropical. 
The daytime temperature varies; in January, it is about 24 ° C (75 ° F) and in June, about 35 ° C (95 ° F). 
To beat the heat, most people are busiest in the mornings. 
They have lunch and siesta, then go back to work for a few hours in the late afternoon. 
The cool breezes from the Gulf of Mexico drift into Mérida in the evenings and this is when many of the residents spend their time outdoors. 
You can see them visiting and talking as they stroll along the streets, sit in the plazas or dine in the many sidewalk restaurants. 
From Mérida, it is easy to take day trips to a vast array of destinations: archaeological sites, ecological parks, typical villages, caves, beaches, colonial missions and more. 
Take your time and really explore the Maya sites, walk for miles along the Gulf of Mexico, attend a village festival, photograph the wildlife, crawl through a cave or swim in a cenote. 
Tourist Information (Turismo Mérida), email: turismo@merida.gob.mx. 
The city maintains several tourist information offices, all of which can offer helpful information on accommodation, free maps, and bus connections. 
All offices also have free copies of Yucatan Today, a helpful weekly Spanish-English publication listing all events in the city and the surrounding region. 
City Hall Information Center (Módulo de Información Turística Palacio Municipal) Calle 62 between 61 and 63 (inside the Palacio del Gobierno left of the main entrance), ☎ + 529999420000 x 80119. 
Daily 08:00 - 20:00, Su 08:00 - 14:00. 
Paseo de Montejo Information Module (Módulo de Información Turística Paseo de Montejo) Ave Paseo de Montejo 56A x 33A ☎ + 529999204044 e-mail: turismo@merida.gob.mx. 
08:00 - 20:00. 
Phoenix 
Phoenix is the capital of the state of Arizona as well as the most populous city in the American Southwest and sixth largest city in the United States. 
Founded in 1871, it has become the region's primary political, cultural, economic, and transportation center. 
At an elevation of 1100 ft (335 m), it is situated in the biologically unique Sonoran Desert. 
Over time it has merged with the neighboring cities of Scottsdale, Tempe, Glendale, Peoria, Chandler, and Gilbert to form the Greater Phoenix Metropolitan Area. 
Currently exurbs such as Apache Junction, Fountain Hills, Queen Creek, and Sun City are becoming part of this metropolitan area as well. 
Phoenix is extremely hot and dry in the summertime, so always have sunscreen with you! 
Understand 
Why would anybody want to start a city in the middle of a desert? 
The answer is, surprisingly, agriculture. 
The Salt and Verde Rivers of central Arizona were exploited for large-scale agriculture by Native Americans as early as the 11th century. 
The area that now encompasses Phoenix was a center of the Hohokam culture, which built large canal systems and a network of towns and villages, whose remains may be viewed in the city to this day. 
White settlers discovered the remnants of the Hohokam culture in the 19th century. 
The city's name reflects its history as a city "reborn from the ashes" of the previous settlement. 
European-American settlement of the area commenced in the 1860s, and in 1911 the completion of the first of several large reservoirs in the mountains north and east of Phoenix insured its success as a center for irrigation-based agriculture. 
Many tens of thousands of acres were planted in citrus and cotton and other crops, and for many years, intensive, year-round irrigated agriculture formed the basis of the economy. 
Recent years are seeing a revival, and trendy hotels, bars, shops and restaurants are making it a place to be again. 
Warm and sunny winter weather also ensured a thriving tourism industry, and encouraged many Easterners and Midwesterners to relocate to Phoenix. 
High-tech industry began to flourish after World War II, and since that time the growth of Phoenix has been explosive. 
As a result, a population of just over 100,000 in 1950 has given way to a 2014 estimate of 1,537,058 (with the metro area estimated at 4,489,109). 
Climate 
Phoenix has an arid climate with long, hot summers and very mild winters. 
It has the highest average temperature of any metropolitan area in the States. 
The weather varies enormously from one season to the next. 
While it's not as cold as in the northern states during the winter, it does freeze sometimes, and temperatures in the 30s ° F (that's around or slightly above 0 ° C) are not unheard of. 
In the summer, very hot and dry heat is the norm. 
On the hottest days, it can get up to 115 ° F (46 ° C) or more. 
Monsoon rains with lightning occur regularly from July to September during the late afternoon and evening, occasionally overnight also. 
April is the most ideal month. 
In some neighborhoods, cicada insects make loud sounds from sunset to sunrise. 
Talk 
English is the dominant language in Phoenix. 
However, like much of the Southwest with a large Hispanic population, Spanish is very widely spoken in Phoenix. 
Spanish is a language often used for day-to-day discourse in many places, although English is the language of preference, especially when dealing with businesses and government. 
Get in 
By plane 
Wikimedia Maps 
Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport (IATA: PHX) +1602275-4958 is the main air gateway to Arizona. 
It is at the southeast end of Downtown. 
It is a hub for American Airlines and Southwest Airlines. 
Terminals are numbered from 2 - 4. 
There is no Terminal 1. 
Terminal 2: Alaska (Gates 10 & 11), Great Lakes (Gates C & D), Spirit, Sun Country, United 
Terminal 3: Delta, Frontier, Hawaiian, JetBlue 
Terminal 4: Aeroméxico, Air Canada, American, British Airways, Southwest, Volaris, WestJet 
Valley Metro #13 goes west to S 75th Ave along S Buckeye (via Greyhound depot) from Terminal 2. 
Likewise one can take the PHX skytrain over to the nearby 44th & Washington St Station to catch the #1 (west to the downtown Central Station and Priest & Washington in Tempe to the east along Washington St); #44 bus (north to the Desert Ridge Marriott Resort in Deer Valley along N 44th St & Tatum); and the light rail (east to Tempe & Mesa and to Midtown (along Central Ave) via downtown in the other direction). 
Understand 
Due to its remarkable biodiversity, with over a third of the local plant species found nowhere else, Socotra has been designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 
With over 40,000 inhabitants, though, it's not just a nature reserve. 
The Island is new to tourism, so if you are looking for a luxurious vacation this is not the right destination. 
However, Socotra is a perfect destination for the adventurous and nature loving travelers. 
Socotra takes pride in their eco-tourism and values their spectacular plant and wildlife that may sometimes be only found on this island. 
Although the lodging and facilities may not be the same as more modern and developed locations, Socotra is a beautiful and magnificent destination choice. 
Great care is shown to both guests and the environment. 
Socotra is an eco-tourism system with limited infrastructure and new to the international tourist market, and therefore the hotel accommodations are not quite like other destinations. 
However there are four hotels in Hadibo: Taj Socotra Hotel, Hafijj Hotel, Socotra Hotel, and Summer land Hotel. 
These hotels may not be the most luxerious, but they do provide air-conditionting, televisions, and refrigerators in all of the rooms. 
Most of the rooms at these hotels have their own bathroom, but there are a few rooms at the Hafijj Hotel and Socotra Hotel that must share bathrooms. 
Fortunately, there is a restaurant in each of the hotels with simple yet delicious cuisine. 
Considering Socotra is a fairly new eco-tourism destination, their facilities are decent. 
In addition, there is also another hotel at the airport as well as multiple guest houses around the island. 
The most popular lodging is actually camping on the beaches. 
There are several campsites that allow tourists to barbeque on the beach with beautiful mountain views in the background. 
Tourists can choose to purchase camping tour packages which include a driver or guide that will show tourists around the beaches as well as provide meals during their stay. 
It is a fantastic way to enjoy the beauty and wildlife of the island. 
A runway that provides fairly regular airline transportation was only constructed in 1999. 
Like everything else, infrastructure and transportation has only just begun in recent years. 
There are also plans for new harbor facilities that will allow fisherman to sell and catch more easily and make importing food and fuel simpler. 
In addition, there are also two information centers located at the airport and Hadibo. 
When to go: Climate is an important consideration. 
And this depends on your interest. 
Nature enthusiasts should go from early October to late April. 
The monsoon occurs in July till mid-August (during July in the south east and south west of the island, wind surfing activity can be arranged). 
Generally, wildlife and natural viewing is best from the end of January through May. 
Get in 
By plane 
Dixam, in the centre of the island 
There are flights from Sana'a via Al Mukalla. 
Yemenia Airlines offers one flight per week on Thursday morning. 
Felix Airways offers two flights per week on Wednesday afternoon and Saturday morning. 
Flight durations are almost three hours. 
There are also flights from Sharjah via Al Mukalla. 
Get around 
There is a public bus from the airport to Hadibo and from Hadibo to Qalansia. 
Beside these two buses, there is no public transport, but car rental with driver is available. 
There is a lot of walking and hiking along with camel back rides available. 
See 
Socotra is considered the jewel of biodiversity in the Arabian Sea. 
Although the region is small, it is characterized by unique land and marine biodiversity. 
The interior of the island is dominated by the beautiful and green Hagghier mountains and limestone plateau. 
While on the outer coastline, breathtaking natural beaches have pure white sand dunes and palm trees. 
Socotra Island is very rich and is home to many rare spectacular species of reefs, fish, birds, plants, and trees which are not found anywhere else in the world. 
The limestone plateau and the Hagghier Mountains are the richest areas for endemic plant species, but endemics are found throughout the island in every type of vegetation. 
One of the most famous plants is the dragon's blood tree “dracaena cinnabara” which exists only on Socotra and nowhere else on the Earth. 
The tree got its name because if any damage is made to the bark then a dark red liquid oozes out. 
The dragon's blood tree thrives in Socotra's arid climate 
There is also the Desert Rose (adenium obesium) which looks like a blooming elephant leg. 
Also found in Socotra's landscape is the ever-strange and extremely rare Cucumber Tree. 
In addition there are over 120 species of birds and about 190 species of butterflies. 
There is so much beauty all around the island, it is difficult not the appreciate to magnificent scenery and wildlife. 
Sydfynske Øhav 
Sydfynske Øhav, the South Funen Archipelago, is located south of the Danish island of Funen, comprising 55 islands and islets, at the mouth of the Baltic Sea, with a bit more than 20,000 inhabitants in total. 
It is one of Denmark's most scenic areas, and should be a top destination of anyone taking the time to explore Denmark outside the capital. 
Understand 
The islands were formed during the last ice age, by ice sliding over the area from the south, only the ancient hilltops was spared from submersion, and forms the many islands and islets peaking above the sea everywhere. 
The area has a milder climate than the country's average, and because of this, is home to flora and fauna not seen anywhere else in Denmark. 
There are strong local movements to convert the area into a National Park. 
Flora & fauna 
The area is one of the most diverse natural environments in the country, and is designated as an international wildlife protection area, as it is home of several rare and protected species. 
If you are interested ornithology the many shallow waters around the islands and islets is a treat with thousands of birds and colonies, one of the more notable is the Arctic Tern, which migrates to Antarctica and back (nearly 40,000 kilometers) every year. 
This is the longest regular migration by any known animal. 
You also find Shore Crabs, Beach Otters and - rare for Denmark - Seals in the shallow waters and beaches. 
On dry land, up on the many islands you can find badgers, stoats and several types of deer. 
While possibly the most exciting animals are found beneath the water: the Harbour Porpoise, Denmark's only resident whale population. 
Get in 
Tåsinge, Langeland and a few of the smaller islands are connected with bridges, but to most of the islands transportation is done with tiny ferries ploughing through the island sea several times per day. 
The main entry points are Svendborg which is easily reach both by highway, bus and train - and Faaborg, which is best reached by bus from Odense. 
From Langeland there are ferries to some other islands. 
For easy reference ferries are listed under the individual islands. 
From Spodsbjerg on Langeland there is a ferry connection across the great belt to Tårs on Lolland. 
Get around 
Bringing a car to the islands serves little point but to rob your wallet of your hard earned cash, and you will be much better served by bringing or renting a bike in Svendborg or Faaborg, or just simply walk since the islands are generally small enough to make this feasible. 
While some islands are connected by the same ferry, you will generally have to go back to the mainland to pass between the islands, if you rely on public transportation. 
However the best way to visit is really by boat, and there are plenty of options to do this. 
A popular option, and one good for your health too, is by sea kayak. 
There are several mapped routes in the area, but remember to be realistic about your fitness, as some of these routes take you a fair bit away from land. 
Several rental places also gives you the option of trained guide, which can both provide information about the sights you visit, and make sure you are safe. 
It is also possible to rent Smack Dinghies with sails to ease the strain, or larger cattle barges if you are in a group at Øhavet's smakkecenter on Strynø. 
Øhavets Smakkecenter, Strynø Brovej 12 (Strynø), ☏ +4550981306, ✉ info@smakkecenter.dk. 
Smack Dinghies: 225 DKK per hour / 825 DKK per day, Sea Kayak: 125 DKK per hour / 350 DKK per day, 1 hour instruction: 450 DKK. 
Walk 
The archipelago trail (da: Øhavsstien) is a 220 km hiking trail connected by ferries that circles the entire area. 
Completed in 2008 the trail is well marked with regular signs set on wooden poles. 
Allow 4 - 7 days for the whole trail depending on experience and your desired pace, but it is also possible do to day trips along the route. 
The local tourist offices in Svendborg and Faaborg can arrange baggage forwarding between your chosen camps or accommodations during peak season. 
Pre arranged package tours are also available from Travel Heels in Taasinge or Vagabond Tours in Tranekær, in cooperation with the local tourist authority. 
If you choose to do the trek individually be mindful that substantial part of the trails crosses private property, so be considerate. 
A comprehensive guidebook with excellent maps is available in Danish only for 150 Kr at most tourist offices in the region. 
Pamphlets with maps, tips and points of interest in English, broken up into 7 parts is available at the tourist offices as well and as pdf files on the introductory link, it is sometimes also available at parking lots along the route, but these are only restocked a couple of times throughout the year, so you may be out of luck. 
Vagabond Tours, Bjerrebyvej 6 (Tranekær), ☏ +4533330040, ✉ info@vagabondtours.dk. 
2500-4600 Kr. 
Travel Heels, Vindebyørevej 42 (Taasinge), ☏ +4588304520, ✉ info@travelheels.dk. 
With local guide, for women only 1380-2075. 
See 
Islands in the archipelago listed in east to west order; note that there are many more islands and islets in the area, but these are the ones with ferry traffic that are possible to visit without making special arrangements. 
Most other islands are closed during much of the year for the protection of local wildlife. 
For the remainder of the year, short stays are permitted, which is interpreted by the authorities as a day or a night. 
While you are normally not allowed to set up a tent, you are permitted to sleep on the beach in a sleeping bag, if necessary under a primitive cover like a tarpaulin. 
Birkholm 
Ferry from Marstal on Ærø, 25 minutes, 1 departure per day (but ordering additional departures are possible), 70 DKK. 
Marina: 54º 55,7' N 10º 30,0' E; VHF; 10 berths at? DKK; Depth:2m; Speed: 3 knots. 
Birkholm Is only 1km² and home of a stubborn but loving 8 people, making it one of the smallest populated islands in the country, how long the island can sustain a full year population remains to be seen, but permanent life on the island will probably be a thing of the past in a not too distant future. 
Non the less it is a pretty, but incredibly flat place, with the highest point towering a proud 1,8 meters over the sea! 
some fine old farm houses which the remaining population does a commendable job trying to maintain, since many of them are now empty and the rest used as vacation home for "Danish foreigners". 
There are some nice beaches and good fishing once you've toured the island. 
If you are a hunter, you might be lucky to run into the yearly Pheasant or hare hunts - you can even rest assured your "evil deeds" does some good, as it supports life on the island. 
Respect 
Thais are a polite people and, while remarkably tolerant of foreigners gallivanting on their beaches and with their women, youll find that you will get more respect if you in turn treat them and their customs with respect. 
The wai 
Ronald McDonald showing how it's done 
The traditional greeting known as the wai, where you press your hands together as is in prayer and bow slightly, is derived from the Hindu cultural influence from India, and still widely practised. 
Among Thais, there are strict rules of hierarchy that dictate how and when the wai should be given. 
In brief, inferiors salute superiors first. 
You should not wai service people or street vendors. 
The higher your hands go, the more respectful you are. 
You will also often see Thais doing a wai as they walk past temples and spirit houses. 
As a foreign visitor, you are not expected to know how to wai, nor to reciprocate when wai'd to; 
while you're unlikely to cause offense if you do, you may well look slightly strange. 
If somebody makes a wai to you, a slight bow alone is more than sufficient for ordinary occasions, and for business, most Thais will shake hands with foreigners instead of waiing anyway. 
Dress 
Personal appearance is very important in Thailand as a measure of respect to other people. 
You will find that dressing appropriately means that you are shown more respect in return. 
This translates in many ways, even sometimes lowering initial offering prices at markets. 
While some allowance is made for the differing customs of foreigners, Thais respond more positively to well-dressed Westerners. 
Traditionally, Thais are modest and conservative dressers. 
At a minimum your clothes should be neat, clean, and free from holes or tears. 
Except at the beach or at sacred sites normal western dress is acceptable for both men and women, except that you should avoid clothing showing a lot of skin. 
Pants are preferable to shorts, blouses should have capped sleeves, and if tank tops are worn, the straps should be thick (i.e., not spaghetti straps). 
Thai men generally wear pants, and most Thais view an adult man wearing shorts as fairly ridiculous; 
shorts are primarily worn by laborers and schoolchildren. 
Men's shorts should be knee length or more, if worn at all. 
Taking off one's shoes at temples and private homes is mandatory etiquette, and this may even be requested at some shops. 
Wear shoes that slip on and off easily. 
Flip-flops, hiking sandals, and clog-type shoes are usually a good pragmatic choice for traveling in Thailand; 
only in the most top-end establishments are shoes required. 
It is best to play it safe with wats and other sacred sites in Thailand; 
your dress should be unambiguously modest and cover your entire torso and most of your limbs. 
For men, ankle-length pants are mandatory; 
on top, t-shirts are acceptable, though a button-front or polo shirt would be best. 
Many recommend that women wear only full length dresses and skirts; 
you should make sure that your clothing covers at least your shoulders and your knees and some places may require that you wear ankle-length pants or skirts and long sleeved tops. 
Shorts and sleeveless shirts are highly inappropriate, as are short skirts. 
The rules are even more strict for foreign visitors, so even if you see a local in shorts it's not OK for everyone. 
Topless sunbathing is common by Western women at many tourist beaches. 
At beaches which are primarily Thai visitors however, this is not advised. 
Religion 
Buddhist prayer flags, Wat Arun, Bangkok 
Monks are an integral part of Buddhism in Thailand, and Thai men are generally expected to spend a certain amount of time living as a monk at least once in their lifetime. 
Buddhist monks are meant to avoid sexual temptations, and in particular they do not touch women or take things from women's hands. 
Women should make every effort to make way for monks on the street and give them room so they do not have to make contact with you. 
Women should avoid offering anything to a monk with their hands. 
Objects or donations should be placed in front of a monk so he can pick it up, or place it on a special cloth he carries with him. 
Monks will sometimes be aided by a layman who will accept things from women merit-makers on their behalf. 
Theravada Buddhist monks are also supposed to avoid material temptations and as such, are not allowed to touch money, so offering money to a monk is considered to be a sign of disrespect in most Theravada Buddhist cultures. 
Therefore, should you wish to donate to a monk, you should only offer food, and put your monetary donation in the appropriate donation box at the temple. 
Those monks that accept money are almost always fakes. 
Tulsa 
Tulsa is in the Green Country region of Oklahoma. 
It is also called “T-town” by the locals and has been called the "Oil Capital of the World". 
The city had about 391,000 people and the metro area had about 937,000 people as of 2010 from the US Census Bureau. 
The Tulsa Bartlesville Combined area had 988,000 in the 2010 census. 
Understand 
Tulsa lies in northeastern Oklahoma, at the convergence of the Great Plains and the Ozark Plateau, and receives an average of 40 inches of precipitation each year, both of which account for its abundant beautiful rolling green terrain. 
As a result, Tulsa breaks the Oklahoma stereotype of being nothing but a flat, arid dust bowl. 
Summers can be very warm and with the cold wind across the plains it can get very cold in the winter, but it does not last long. 
The winters are considered to be very mild. 
There is not much snow, just a few inches each year, typically, although in 2007 and again in 2008 there were rather large "ice storms". 
Tulsa has over 225 days of sunshine annually. 
In Tulsa you will find old west charm as well as a cosmopolitan atmosphere. 
You will find the people of Tulsa love their city and they have that southern charm, so they are willing to help you find your way around. 
Tulsa has one of the largest concentrations of Art Deco in the nation, having been a booming city during the 1920s when the architecture was first built by rich oil barons who built stately mansions and turned the Downtown area into a treasure trove of art. 
Get in 
By plane 
Tulsa International Airport (IATA: TUL) in the northern part of Tulsa. 
It has major airlines with direct flights to major cities in the U.S. 
It is a small but nice airport with sofas and chairs all around and a very laid-back feel. 
The car rental area and parking is well integrated. 
The airport offers free short term parking (first half-hour free). 
Richard L. Jones, Jr. Airport (IATA: RVS) (often called the "Riverside Airport") is south of downtown and is a general aviation airport. 
By train 
There is no passenger train service to Tulsa. 
By car 
Most Tulsans drive almost everywhere, although bus, bike, and pedestrian routes are starting to catch on. 
From the North / Kansas - US-75 South from Bartlesville, OK, or US-169 South from Coffeyville, KS. 
From the Northeast / Missouri - I-44 West, aka the "Will Rogers Turnpike." 
The world's former largest McDonalds spans the roadway near Vinita, OK. 
From the East / Arkansas - US-412 West, aka the "Cherokee Turnpike." 
From the Southeast / Arkansas - The "Muskogee Turnpike." 
From the South - US-75 from Okmulgee, OK, aka the "Okmulgee Beeline." 
From the Southwest / Oklahoma City - I-44 East, aka the "Turner Turnpike." 
From the West - US-412 East, aka the "Cimarron Turnpike." 
For the slow scenic route from Northeast or Southwest come in on old Route 66. 
By bus 
Greyhound Bus Lines +1918584-4428, 317 S Detroit Ave. (downtown). 
Get around 
Thanks to urban planning, the major city streets are placed in a grid layout. 
Almost all major intersections are one mile from each other, and exactly in a straight line. 
That makes it much easier to find places than in cities where streets go every which way. 
The major exception is downtown, which is slanted at almost a 45 degree angle to the rest of the grid. 
By car 
Several freeways and bypasses can be used to easily get around the Tulsa Metro area: I-244, I-44, US 169 (Mingo Valley Expressway, aka "Pearl Harbor Memorial Expressway"), US 75, Hwy 51 (Broken Arrow Expressway, The "B.A."), Creek Turnpike. 
The streets and avenues are planned on a 1 mile by 1 mile grid system, with the main arterials running on each mile. 
In the core of the city, named avenues run north / south and are named after US cities, generally in repeating alphabetical order (for example, Winston - Yale - Allegheny - Braden). 
In the mid-town area the names are taken from colleges and college towns. 
North / South is divided by Admiral Blvd. 
Name streets East of Main are cities east of the Mississippi River, vice versa for name streets west of Main. 
In the parts of the city farther from downtown, north-south streets are numbered. 
It is important to recognize that the specific format of the north-south numbered street names is North / South 145th East / West Avenue. 
Numbered streets run East / West with Main Street and the Arkansas River as the dividing line. 
Watch out for Place, Street, Avenue designation, e.g. 47th Place, 47th Street, or Florence Place, Florence Avenue. 
It is important to recognize that the specific format of the east-west numbered street names is West / East 71st Street North / South. 
In some parts of the city, numbered streets intersect, so the distinction is important. 
Although rare, one east-west numbered street may even intersect with a street of the same number running north-south. 
Downtown streets were originally platted parallel to the Frisco railroad tracks. 
When Tulsa expanded beyond the bounds of its original plat, the expanded areas were platted in alignment with the points of the compass. 
Thus the "twisted" area down-town represents the original extent of Tulsa ca 1907. 
By bus 
Tulsa Transit provides bus service for the Tulsa Metro area. 
Cities served are Tulsa, Sand Springs, Sapulpa, Jenks, and Broken Arrow. 
The central station is at 319 S. Denver (downtown). 
They do not run that often, especially to the outer towns like Broken Arrow. 
Unlike major cities in the Northeast, the city bus is not a major form of transportation in the city. 
It is usually a means of travel for those who are without their own motor vehicle. 
By bicycle 
Tulsa has an extensive interconnected paved bike trail system. 
Rivertrail follows the Arkansas River from downtown Tulsa south to the suburbs. 
The Katy Trail runs west to Sand Springs. 
The Osage Trail is a rails-to-trails route that begins at the OSU-Tulsa campus and travels north 15 miles to Skiatook. 
The Creek Trail connects Rivertrail and continues east through Broken Arrow to the NSU-Broken Arrow campus. 
Riders accustomed to flat terrain may find Tulsa's rolling land to be a bit more challenging, particularly during the heat of summer. 
If you are looking for a good workout, the Creek Turnpike Trail follows the land's original contours. 
Rivertrail is probably be best choice for the rider seeking an easy route. 
Four bike loan depots, located along Rivertrail, allow riders to borrow a bike for free for up to twenty-four hours. 
Tulsa has an active bicycling community. 
York 
York is an ancient cathedral city with a history that dates back to before Roman times. 
It is situated in Yorkshire, North Yorkshire, England with some of the best preserved historical buildings and structures in Europe. 
As of the 2001 census, the population of York was 181,000. 
York is frequently ranked (often vying with Manchester) the second most visited city in England after London. 
York Minster 
Understand 
York was known as Eboracum by the Romans, who founded the fortress city on the River Ouse in the year 71. 
York was home first to the Ninth Legion and later the Sixth. 
York quickly became one of the most important cities in Roman Britain, and after 211 became the capital of the province Britannia Inferior. 
Constantine the Great - later responsible for making Christianity the official religion of the Roman Empire - was first proclaimed Emperor in the city. 
Captured by the Vikings 866, the city quickly took on a new identity as Jorvik (pronounced "Yor-vik") and experienced a major urban revival as a centre of Viking trade and settlement in northern England. 
The Coppergate excavations of the 1970s revealed much of this Viking past. 
York is a fairly small city - four days is enough to see the major sights although York is a city that reveals its charms to explorers with curiosity and patience. 
York is known as England's "City of Festivals "as there are regular cultural festivals every year. 
The official festivals are the Viking Festival, the Festival of Angels, Early Music, Late Music, Horse Racing (the "Ebor Race Meeting"), Multicultural Food and Arts, Chinese New Year, Mystery Plays, Christmas St Nicholas' Fair, and the Food and Drink Festival. 
It's a romantic city for a weekend break. 
York is full of magic and a wonderful place to bring children! 
Get in 
Most travellers will arrive in York by road (car or bus) or rail from other parts of the UK or an airport. 
By car 
Although York is not directly on any of the main north-south motorways, the connections are reasonably good. 
From the south, the quickest route is probably to take the M1 northbound to junction 32, then the M18 eastbound to junction 2, the A1M northbound to junction 44 and finally the A64 eastbound to the York Outer Ring Road (A1237). 
Alternatively, you can take the M1 all the way to the A64, but the upper reaches of the M1 around Sheffield and Leeds can get very congested, especially in the rush hours. 
From the west, the A59 and the M62 provide connections from Liverpool and Manchester, and from the north the A1 and the A19 link York with Tyneside, Northumberland and south-eastern Scotland. 
Driving into the city centre itself is something to avoid. 
Traffic congestion on the main arterial roads serving the city (especially the A19 on Bootham and the Inner Ring Road) can get very bad, especially during the rush hours and on Saturday mornings. 
The remodelling of some roads near bottleneck junctions to accommodate bicycle lanes has made traffic jams even worse still in recent years, and parking in the city centre is very expensive. 
If you are just visiting York for the day, using a Park and Ride [1] costs a lot less than trying to park in or near the city centre, and there are five sites dotted around the Outer Ring Road. 
However, the last buses from the city centre leave at around 8 pm in the evenings and you are not allowed to leave your car in a Park and Ride overnight. 
Therefore, if you are staying overnight in York and arriving by car, make sure that your hotel offers parking before you book. 
If you are only visiting for the day but staying until late evening, you will need to use a city centre car park. 
How to Detect Arrogant People 
Do you always seem to cross paths with people who are stuck on themselves, intolerant of people different from them, rude or downright arrogant? 
These people can be a great source of potential pain, and this article is here to help you sort the arrogant from the not-so-arrogant. 
Steps 
Pay attention to their conversations. 
Don't eavesdrop, but when they're talking to you or to those around you, listen to them. 
Is it always about them? 
Do they get mad or irritated if the centre of attention moves to someone else? 
These are good signs of arrogance. 
Arrogance and smugness is often a reflection of limited life experience, and feeling concerned that those with greater life experience "have got something over them". 
Rather than seeking to find out more through questions and learning (actions viewed by them as showing vulnerability), arrogant people tend to generalize from their limited, narrow life experiences and try to impose their small worldview on others. 
Jealousy of your achievements or seeming lifestyle can cause another person to feel smug or arrogant about something they think they do better than you or own / have that you don't. 
Arrogant people have an extremely strong need to look good. 
When you make them look bad - even if it is the slightest offense - they will usually be very mad at you. 
This happens when you question (or at least seem to question) their appearance, intelligence, athletic abilities, or anything else relating to their self-image. 
Challenge their worldview. 
Don't be aggressive –– just skeptical and curious. 
If they get upset, gauge their anger. 
If it's minimal, they may be simply having a bad day. 
But if they're enraged, then they may see you as questioning their 'perfect little world.' 
And having one of those is usually indicative of arrogance. 
At some point or another, most people realize that the world doesn't revolve around them. 
Arrogant people counteract this by creating an atmosphere that revolves around them, and get angry if they're reminded of the real world. 
Ambiguity frightens arrogant people because it suggests imperfection, change and lack of certainty (realities we all must contend with as best we can). 
As such, instead of accepting that the world behaves randomly and at times totally averse to one's preferences, the arrogant person seeks to control everything and everyone, which of course, is an impossible mission. 
Reality hurts when it intrudes; as such, an arrogant person is less likely than other people to self-reflect or analyse, thereby not seeing their own imperfections. 
They may also give themselves undue credit for positive achievements instead of acknowledging the input of others or of circumstances. 
Learn the quality of their friendships. 
Don't be nosy or gossipy, but if they are happy with someone one day and hateful with them the next, that's a sign of them having a lot of fair weather friends. 
That's a sign of arrogance, since it is very hard to be a truly good friend to someone who's stuck on themselves. 
Prideful people have a strong need to look good, and being self-sufficient is an effective way to do that. 
Since being a good friend to someone usually means helping them, they often can't stand the thought of a good friendship. 
Ironically, arrogant people often can't understand why they don't have any reliable and supportive friends. 
How do they treat those not like themselves? 
In other words, how do they treat those with different beliefs, cultural backgrounds and ways of seeing the world? 
If it's inherently negative, then they're either over-zealous, ignorant of other people or what to avoid those that contradict their fantasy land that caters to them and them only. 
Determine this based on their general personality and the people they're interacting with. 
Many times prideful people have a serious 'my-way's-the-only-way' attitude. 
This is simply a protective mechanism for their false image or their fantasy land. 
What's their personality like? 
Take note of how they act, talk, and use their social status. 
Do they have a general sense of 'coolness?' 
Are they a chatterbox? 
Do they act like they own the place, or act like the 'big dog?' 
Are they very keen on their self-image? 
Many arrogant people have a false charm that no one seems to see through. 
But the arrogant person is usually more than happy to show their cruel side to those that they don't like. 
When they are cruel, their friends will usually ignore it or not do anything to stop it since they're afraid that they'll be treated badly by their 'friend.' 
Mention people you know that they don't like. 
This isn't meant to begin a conflict, but to gauge their rivalries, annoyances and enmities. 
If their condemnation seems to be reasonable, they probably aren't hubristic. 
If it's harsh, they are. 
For the most part, arrogant people see people that they don't like as threats to their perfect little world. 
The more they hate someone, the more dangerous that person is to their fantasy land. 
And in turn, the bigger the threat, the harsher the criticism. 
Ask around to see what they've been saying about you. 
If they have been saying bad things about you, they may simply not like you. 
If they're nice to your face, but talk bad about you behind your back like it's their favourite hobby, then they probably have a problem with pride. 
Arrogant people often subconsciously know that they don't have any good friends. 
They compensate for this by creating the impression that they have a lot of friends - they have a 'quantity, not quality' mentality. 
Then they simply insult their trophy friends when they aren't looking. 
How to Ballet Dance 
Ballet began in royal courts in the early 1600's, and early forms of this elegant and sophisticated art involved long skirts and wooden clogs. 
Dancing ballet is extremely popular throughout the world, and studying ballet can help develop strong bodies, spatial and temporal awareness, and improve coordination. 
People who study ballet also retain flexibility throughout their adult lives, making this technique the basis of training for all types of dance. 
While dancing ballet takes dedication and requires serious training, you can learn the basics to prepare yourself for further study. 
Learn to get ready for practicing, the basic positions, and some of the first techniques you're likely to encounter in ballet. 
Part 1 Getting Ready to Dance 
Stretch your muscles thoroughly. 
Stretching is important to loosen muscles, strengthen muscles and to elongate your posture. 
It is vital that it is done at the beginning of each ballet session, including before a performance. 
When taking on ballet, it is important to stretch daily for at least 15 - 30 minutes, to give the muscles ample opportunity to warm up, reducing the risk of injury. 
You should also stretch to "wind down" at the end of ballet dancing. 
Always wear ballet slippers. 
Properly-fitted ballet shoes should be snug, but not so tight they cut off blood flow and create numbness in the feet. 
There are different styles and types of shoes, so ask your ballet teacher or a salesman at the store for advice, given your intentions for dancing. 
Don't buy shoes to grow into, because your feet will seem flexed when you pointe and will look flat. 
You should fit them to where the drawstring is tied slightly loose. 
If your drawstring is longer than your pinkie then you should cut it off till it is roughly the size of your fingernail. 
The drawstring just completes the fit. 
It isn't made to tighten overly large shoes. 
If you can't buy ballet shoes, that it is okay. 
Use socks without the stickies on the bottom, so you can turn! 
Wear comfortable and snug-fitting athletic clothes. 
The most important thing is that you are comfortable, and that you're not wearing baggy or loose fitting clothing so you can make sure you're forming and moving correctly in the mirror. 
A plain black leotard and pink tights are usually a safe bet. 
Pink or black ballet slippers are also appropriate. 
If you're signed up for a class, check with your instructor to find out if there is a dress code at the school. 
Some schools may have students wear the same thing and others may just require any type of leotard and tights and sometimes ballet skirts. 
Mostly they require tight fitting clothing so they can see that your muscles are working properly and so on. 
Find an appropriate space to practice. 
Ballet is less about learning the moves and more about perfecting them. 
The moves themselves are relatively straightforward, but the positing, the timing, and the elegance required takes a lifetime of practice. 
For this reason, it's always better to practice ballet in a ballet studio under the guidance of a good instructor, who will be able to correct your positioning and make sure that you're dancing properly. 
A dancing studio is equipped with mirrors for correcting your positioning and seeing what you're doing accurately, and a barre for practicing. [1] 
If you want to practice at home, make sure you've got enough open space to move freely, preferably on a hard wood floor. 
The back of a chair can replace the need for a bar. 
Position a large mirror so you can check your positioning and see what you're doing. 
How to Grow Basil 
Three Methods: Starting Seeds Caring for Basil Harvesting and Using Basil 
Basil is easy to grow, and transforms ordinary meals into culinary treasures! 
Fresh basil not only tastes better than dried, it actually tastes different, almost as if it were not the same herb. 
This article outlines how to plant and harvest basil. 
Method 1 of 3: Starting Seeds 
1 Choose the kind of basil you wish to grow. 
Basil comes in many different varieties, each of which have a unique flavor and smell. 
Read up on different types of basil and pick out one - or several - that appeal to you, then order the seeds or buy them at a garden store. 
Here are a few ideas: 
Cinnamon basil really does smell like the sweet spice, and it also has unusually beautiful and fragrant flowers. 
Lemon basil actually contains citral, an aromatic compound found in citrus fruit, and smells very lemony. 
Purple basil is often grown for decoration, as well as its scent and flowers. 
There are perennial basils which come back year after year, like African Blue Basil (which has pretty blue veins on its leaves) and Thai Basil, while most other varieties are annuals, which you'll have to plant year after year. 
Globe and Greek basil are much more difficult to grow, but form pretty little bushes which stay well-contained. 
2 Start seed indoors four to six weeks before last frost. 
Basil needs warm air and sun to do well, so it's often easiest to start the seeds indoors instead of risking that they'll get damaged by frost. 
If you live in a hot climate, you can start the seeds outside instead. 
To figure out when the last frost will be, consult an almanac or talk with other gardeners in your area. 
3 Prepare seed containers. 
Fill flats or individual seed containers with a mixture of equal parts perlite, vermiculite, and peat. 
Press the mixture slightly to eliminate air pockets. 
Dampen the mixture with water so it's ready to provide the right environment for the basil seeds to germinate. 
4 Plant the seeds. 
Drop one to two seeds into each container. 
Cover them lightly with soil. 
Cover containers with clear plastic kitchen wrap, so they stay moist. 
Leave the containers in a sunny window. 
Twice daily, remove the plastic wrap and sprinkle the containers with more water. 
5 Remove the plastic wrap when the sprouts emerge. 
When you see the first green tendrils push up through the soil, it's time to remove the plastic wrap. 
Keep watering the sprouts twice daily, never letting the soil dry out. 
When the plants become a few inches tall and their leaves mature, it's time to transplant them to a larger container. 
Method 2 of 3: Caring for Basil 
1 Transplant the basil plants. 
Once two sets of leaves have formed, basil can be planted into the garden or permanent containers. 
Basil does not tolerate frost so don't plant too early. 
It's best to put basil somewhere where it will get a good deal of sunshine and have well-drained soil. 
To plant the basil in the garden, dig holes spaced at least 6 inches apart. 
Place the roots in the holes and place soil around the stems. 
Pat down soil around the plants to eliminate air pockets. 
If you want to plant the basil in a container, make sure it's large enough to accommodate the number of plants you're growing; 
they need to be planted 6 inches apart, since they grow quite large. 
2 Keep the soil damp, but not soaked. 
Basil does best in well-drained soil, and should not be subjected to standing water. 
Water the mature basil plants once a day, in the morning, so the water has time to soak in and evaporate rather than sitting on the plants overnight. 
3 Pinch off flower heads. 
When you see flower buds, pinch them and two pairs of leaves under them off. 
Flowers blooming create a hormone change which dramatically reduces the flavor of the leaves, as well as reducing the amount of foliage which grows. 
This is called" bolting" and is more likely to happen when there's extra sunshine. 
You'll notice that if you leave the flowers, the plant will become lanky and the leaves won't be as full or tasty. 
4 Watch for pests and mold. 
Basil plants are attractive to Japanese beetles 
the best way to control these pests is to pick them off the plants by hand. 
If your plants show signs of mold growth, they may not be getting adequate sunlight, or they may be too close together. 
Weed out the smaller plants to give the larger ones more space. 
Method 3 of 3: Harvesting and Using Basil 
1 Harvest and prune. 
As the plant matures, pinch off the top two pairs of leaves once a stalk reaches a reasonable height. 
If you look closely, at the base of every leaf are two tiny little leaves that will grow outwards if the stem growing between them is cut off. 
Cut close to those tiny leaves, but be sure not to damage them. 
Pinching encourages the plant's energy to be directed into its stronger stems and leaves. 
This helps the plants grow bushy. 
Don't pinch on the lower part of the stem, or the basil plants will grow tall and reedy. 
You want them to get bushy, so pinch from the top. 
2 Enjoy the basil fresh. 
Rinse off the leaves and use the basil to make pesto or a Caprese salad with tomatoes and fresh mozzarella cheese. 
3 Store the basil in the refrigerator. 
You'll probably have more basil than you could possibly eat fresh, so plan on storing some in the fridge. 
Wash the leaves, dry them well, and wrap them in paper towels. 
Place them in a food storage container with an airtight lid. 
4 Freeze the basil. 
Freezing the leaves whole doesn't work very well, but if you puree it first you can freeze it for months. 
Place the basil in a blender with a little water. 
Puree it until smooth, then put it in a food storage bag and freeze until you need it. 
How to Hypnotize a Chicken 
Anyone who's spent a lot of time on a farm with chickens is probably familiar with this trick. 
Those who've never heard of this will be amazed to see a chicken lie perfectly still after these instructions are followed. 
Biologists think that fear causes this "hypnosis," which may be an attempt to "play dead" to fool predators. 
Method One of Two: Hypnotizing a Chicken 
Hold the chicken down on a flat surface. 
Hold the chicken with one hand supporting the breast. 
Place it down so that its breast is carrying its weight and rests on the ground. 
Continue to hold its feet so the grand experiment can continue. 
You can place the chicken on its breast instead. 
Press gently down on its back, and gently move its legs back if it tries to stand up. 
Wiggle your finger. 
Hold the bird down gently with one hand. 
Put one finger on your other hand just in front of its beak tip, without touching it. 
Move the finger backward to about 4 inches (10 cm) away, then back again. 
Repeat until the chicken stops moving or squawking. 
Let go of its legs. 
The chicken should be "hypnotized" and cease to struggle. 
It will lie there for anywhere from 30 seconds to several minutes. 
Draw a line in front of its beak instead. 
If the chicken wasn't hypnotized, try this alternative. 
Using chalk, a stick, or your finger, draw a line on the ground 12 " (30 cm) long. 
Start near the chicken's beak and draw the line slowly outward, in front of its head. 
Wake it up by clapping. 
Be nice to your feathered friend and let it get back to its business. 
Clap your hands or give it a gentle shove until it jumps up and walks away. 
Method Two of Two: Reducing Stress in the Chicken 
Understand the hypnotic effect. 
Researchers call this effect "tonic immobility". 
"When a chicken or another animal with this tendency becomes frightened, its heart rate lowers and it stops moving. 
This may be an attempt to play dead, discouraging predators that prefer live prey. 
Unlike an opossum, the chicken gives an unconvincing act, as it continues to blink and breathe in an obvious way." 
Keep the chicken upright or on its side. 
While it's not uncommon to transport a chicken by its feet, this upside-down hold risks breaking the chicken's hip. 
Hypnosis techniques that involve laying a chicken on its back may "succeed" by cutting off its air supply. 
This can cause the chicken significant discomfort, leading to fainting or even, rarely, death. 
Keep hypnosis short and infrequent. 
It's not completely clear how much stress this hypnosis causes. 
Even if it does, the chicken shouldn't suffer as long as you let it go soon afterward. 
Hours of stress, or regular exposure to stressful situations, can cause serious health problems. 
Get your chickens used to humans and novelty. 
Even prolonged eye contact seems to have an effect. 
Living in stimulating environments with new objects may also help. 
Hens raise in battery cages stay "hypnotized" longer, possibly because of greater fear. 
Watch for signs of stress. 
Abnormal feathering, constant preening, or delays in egg-laying are all signs of a stressed chicken. 
While hypnotizing is unlikely to cause serious harm, any type of stress is more damaging to a chicken in this state. 
How to Make Vegan Cupcakes 
Two Methods: 
Basic Vanilla Vegan Cupcakes 
Basic Chocolate Vegan Cupcakes 
No need to give up wicked cakes when you toss the eggs, butter, and milk! 
Here's a great vegan cupcake recipe to use as a base for whatever flavored icing you want to add to it. 
They're guaranteed to be light and fluffy and perfect for any occasion. 
Ingredients 
Method 1: Basic Vanilla Vegan Cupcakes: 
Servings: 18 - 24 (fewer if you opt for larger-sized cupcakes) 
1 tablespoon (15 ml) apple cider vinegar 
1 1/2 cups (350 ml) plain soy milk 
2 3/4 cups (345 g) self raising flour 
2 teaspoons (10 g) baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
1 cup (200 g) sugar 
1/2 cup (120 ml) vegetable oil 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
Vegan icing of your choice 
Method 2: Basic Chocolate Vegan Cupcakes: 
Makes approx: 20 - 24 cupcakes: 
275 g (2 cups) plain or all-purpose flour (sifted) 
100 g (3/4 cup) quality cocoa powder (sifted) 
2 teaspoons baking soda 
1 teaspoon baking powder 
Pinch of salt 
450 ml (1 - 3/4 cup) unsweetened soy milk 
2 teaspoons red wine or apple cider vinegar 
320 g (1-2/3 cups) caster/superfine sugar 
320 ml (1 - 1/4 cups) sunflower oil (or coconut oil) 
2 tablespoons vanilla extract/essence 
Method 1 of 2: Basic Vanilla Vegan Cupcakes. 
Preheat the oven to 180oC/350oF. 
Prepare the muffin tray by adding cupcake holders/cases. 
Put to one side. 
Alternatively, use a silicone cupcake baking sheet with molded holes. 
Put the cider vinegar into a small bowl and add the soy milk. 
Stir this well and then put to one side. 
The mixture will now curdle and this is what should be happening. 
Stir together the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt. 
If you want chocolate cupcakes, add cocoa (about 1/2 cup) to this stage. 
Stir the oil and vanilla extract into the bowl containing the soy milk and vinegar. 
Mix together. 
Add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients and beat together (by hand or with an electric hand-held mixer). 
Fill the muffin pan. 
Usually fill each paper cupcake holder with about 1/4 cup of batter. 
If you prefer larger cupcakes, then add a half a cup but make sure the muffin pan is larger and the cupcake holders are bigger. 
Bake for 18 - 20 minutes. 
If you can smell the cupcakes earlier, check to make sure they aren't browning earlier (this means they're more than ready). 
If you aren't certain, turn off the oven earlier and let them sit for a few more minutes rather than bake them into rocks. 
Wait for the pan to cool down. 
Place cupcakes onto a wire rack to cool. 
Ice the cupcakes. 
The flavor of icing or frosting can be improved by adding a little of your favorite juice to it instead of soy milk or water. 
Finished. 
Method 2 of 2: Basic Chocolate Vegan Cupcakes 
Preheat the oven to 160oC/315oF. 
If using cupcake cases, arrange on a baking sheet now. 
If using a silicone cupcake sheet, simply have it ready. 
Add the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda and pinch of salt to the mixing bowl. 
Mix to combine. 
Pour the soy milk, vinegar, sugar, oil and vanilla into another bowl. 
Whisk together well. 
Pour the liquid mixture into the flour mixture. 
Stir to combine thoroughly. 
Pour into the cupcake cases or cupcake holes. 
Place into the oven. 
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes. 
If they smell strongly earlier, test with a wooden skewer; if it returns clean after sticking into a cupcake, they're ready. 
Remove from the oven. 
Transfer the cupcakes to a wire cooling rack as quickly as possible when cool enough to handle. 
Let cool completely on the rack. 
Frost as desired. 
Add standard frosting or make vegan butter cream. 
Tips 
You can add pureed fruit for delicious flavor changes. 
One small container of pureed fruit is sufficient for flavoring (the little containers that children take to school in their lunchboxes.) 
Try strawberry, apple, banana, apricot, peach etc. 
The cupcakes will not be as light and fluffy, however, so be prepared for a heavier cupcake if you add fruit but the added moisture content is a definite plus. 
Instead of using vegan sugar, you can replace it with equal parts maple sugar or rice syrup 
Instead of using vegetable oil, try substituting it for walnut or macadamia nut oils if they are available to you. 
Coconut oil also produces good results. 
And olive oil works fine if it's all that's left in the pantry. 
You can replace the plain soy milk with other flavors like chocolate or vanilla if you want to experiment with changing the flavor of the cupcakes. 
Experiment with the flavors of either recipe by replacing the vanilla extract with fragrant ingredients like neroli orange oil, rosewater, orange blossom water or coconut extract. 
How to Annoy People in Elevators 
An elevator is almost the perfect environment to be a prankster. 
It’s easy to annoy people when you are cramped in such a small, tight space. 
Because elevator rides usually last less than a minute, make sure your pranks are quick and have a lot of punch. 
When annoying people on an elevator, keep your pranks lighthearted and fun as opposed to mean-spirited so that everyone leaving the elevator will have a pleasant story to tell. 
Method 1 Using the Elevator to Annoy People 
Push all the buttons. 
When you get into the elevator, push the button for every floor. 
This makes everyone’s ride on the elevator longer, if only for a few seconds. 
If you want to take it a step further, look around questioningly at everyone in the elevator when no one gets off at the floors you pushed. [1] 
When someone comes in, say, "I've got this," before you push all of the buttons. 
You can also push all the buttons as you reach the floor you are getting off at. 
If someone asks you why you pushed all the buttons, you can honestly say, "It was just a joke!" 
Make a dinging noise at each floor. 
Every time the elevator reaches a new floor, say “ding!” very loudly. 
You can even sing the word “ding” on each floor like notes in a scale, getting higher as you reach each new floor. [2] 
You can make other noises if you prefer, such as a bird cawing or an explosion sound every time a button is pushed. 
Talk to your reflection in the mirror. 
Many elevators have mirrors on the walls. 
A great way to be mischievous in an elevator is to carry on a running commentary while you look at yourself in the mirror. 
You could look at yourself, turning to catch different angles and say “All right, all right, now we’re talking,” very loudly. 
You could also keep adjusting your shirt or your hair, keeping a running dialogue about what look is best for you. 
Stand in the corner of the elevator facing the wall. 
Don't say anything the whole ride. 
Dance to the elevator music. 
Many elevators play music in the background, usually soft rock or smooth jazz. 
If you’re in an elevator that is playing music, start to dance. 
Start just bobbing your head and tapping your feet, and then get your whole body into it. 
Take up as much space as you can to dance until everyone is staring at you. [3] 
Announce every floor. 
At every floor, make a loud announcement telling everyone the floor number. 
Say something like “Everyone going to floor ten, get off now! No time to dilly dally!” [4] 
You can also pretend to conduct people onto the elevator, saying “All aboard the elevator train!” 
Exclaim that you've lost a beast. 
When the elevator is going from the bottom floor to the top, as soon as the doors close, exclaim that you lost your tarantula / snake / scorpion but confirm that it is somewhere in the elevator. 
Most people will probably see that this is a joke. 
However, if somebody looks seriously alarmed or is starting to panic, let them know that you were not being serious. 
Build in or add something to the elevator. 
For example, build a Lego city in the middle of the elevator. 
Lay a Twister mat on the floor and ask people if they want to play. 
Talk to people. 
When there are a lot of people, say, "You're probably wondering why I've gathered you here today." 
How to Flirt Through Instant Messaging 
So you want to flirt with a guy or gal on MSN, AIM, Facebook Chat, or any other instant messaging service and you don't want to look like a creep? 
Congratulations — by seeking help, you've already demonstrated more self-awareness than the vast majority of online flirts. 
See Step 1 below to start flirting smartly and respectfully. 
Part 1 of 2: Flirting Dos 
Start the conversation casually. 
As in the real world, the first step to flirting is to get over your cold feet and jump right in! 
Text the other person a brief message asking them about their day, asking them a specific question about work or school, or simply saying "Hi!". 
The hardest part of flirting is to break through your initial reluctance, so if you're having a hard time taking the plunge, just remind yourself that no matter how badly it goes, it'll be less stressful than an equivalent real-world encounter. 
There's no reason to be nervous when it comes to IM flirting — 
if the person you want to talk to doesn't want to talk to you, s/he always has the option of simply not responding to your message, as, from your point of view, this is indistinguishable from him or her simply being away from the computer. 
This being said, if you barely know someone, it can be a good idea to have an excuse for starting a conversation to avoid awkwardness. 
Asking for help with a work or school-related problem is almost always a good bet, as is asking a question about something striking about the person. 
For instance, if the person has a band-related username, you might say: "Hey, cool name. Did you see those guys when they last came to town?" 
Start small talk. 
After your initial greeting and exchange of pleasantries, you'll probably want to ask how the person's doing (just like you might in the real world). 
Ask him or her about work or school, his / her interests, or any recent trips, for instance. 
Rather than asking a question, you can also simply offer your comments on these things. 
When s/he responds, add your own comments or ask follow-up questions and proceed from there! 
Don't pry into his or her personal life — keep things light, fun, and focused on worry-free subjects. 
Don't dwell too long on small talk. 
A minute or two is great for breaking the ice, but much more can get boring fast. 
For example, after we've opened up by asking about this person's interest in the band in his / her username, it's logical and reasonable to ask about this person's musical likes and dislikes. 
You can even offer your own opinions and suggestions. 
For instance, you might say something like: "If you like those guys, you might want to check out this band called Manic Albatross - they're like the Beatles, only darker. What sorts of other bands do you like?" 
Joke. 
Everyone likes a good sense of humor. 
In the immortal words of Marilyn Monroe, "If you can make a woman laugh, you can make her do anything" (don't worry, ladies — the same is true for men!) 
Try to be playful and even slightly sarcastic as you respond to the statements of the person you're talking to. 
For instance, if you're asked what you're up to, rather than saying, "looking for people to hit on on Facebook" you might find that it's a better idea to give a sarcastic answer like "writing the great American novel" or "drowning my sorrows". 
These responses have the added benefit of being natural launching points for conversations about your hobbies, like the writing you're doing on the side and the great bourbon you tasted the other day. 
In our example conversation, you might work a joke or two into your music-related small talk. 
For instance, you might say something like, "I don't know why every song on the radio nowadays has a Texas Flynn feature. Does he even have time to record between rehab stints?" 
Part 2 of 2: Flirting Don'ts 
Don't be too self-deprecating. 
Simply put, confidence is sexy. 
This is more true for real-life situations than it is online, but this mantra has some truth in the world of IM flirting as well. 
For instance, you'll want to avoid making lots of jokes at your own expense. 
Just one is plenty — it shouldn't be a recurring theme throughout your conversation. 
Doing this too often can quickly turn an otherwise flirtatious conversation into one in which you appear needy and self-loathing. 
On the other hand, this isn't to say that you should necessarily make jokes at other people's expense, as this can make you seem mean and petty. 
Any sort of pointed or caustic remarks about yourself or someone else don't have a place in flirtatious conversations. 
Don't be too sappy. 
People like flirting to be fun. 
For most people, receiving compliments is only fun up to a point — getting more than one or two can make someone feel embarrassed and self-conscious. 
It can also make him or her question your motives, leading the person to believe that you may be trying to get something out of him or her. 
Besides, the wooing power of flowery, gushing compliments is diminished (to say the least) when the compliments are displayed in a tiny box at the bottom of the screen alongside cartoon smiley faces. 
Instead of relying too heavily on compliments, instead, focus on having an engaging, genuine conversation. 
Follow the mantra "show, don't tell." 
In other words, show that you're attracted to this person by giving him or her a great conversation, not by stating it outright. 
How to Make a Glowstick 
Those glowing Mountain Dew videos with peroxide and baking soda are all hoaxes. 
To truly make a glowstick without breaking an already-made glowstick and shoving its contents into a tube (also known as cheating), you've gotta let your inner scientist out (along with a few dollars). 
If you're still curious, read on. 
This is fun for anyone and everyone. 
Method One of Two: Using Luminol 
Put on protective glasses. 
In addition, wear gloves to protect your skin. 
It's also a good idea to not wear your Sunday best. 
Throw on some old clothes or put a smock over clothes you want protected. 
Some of this stuff is dangerous -- this experiment is not meant for children! 
Listen up, kids: You'll be working with a solution that's near a 12 on the pH scale. 
That basically means don't swallow it, don't put it in your eyes, don't bathe in it, and don't really expose yourself to it directly at all. 
Got it? 
Moving on. 
Combine 50 milliliters of hydrogen peroxide and a liter of distilled water in a mixing bowl. 
A ceramic bowl will work best, but plastic works too. 
Use funnels, measuring tubes, and basters to keep everything well-measured and well away from you. 
Hydrogen peroxide is used to replace the luminol's nitrogen atoms with oxygen. 
When that happens, all the substances create a rave and start partying and electrons fly everywhere and what results? 
The glow. 
Mix .2 grams of luminol, 4 grams of sodium carbonate, .4 grams of copper sulfate, .5 grams of ammonium carbonate and 1 liter (0.3 US gal) of distilled water in a second bowl. 
It is important not to touch the luminol. 
Use a funnel to make everything safe and easy. 
Unfortunately, these hazardous chemicals will not float freely in mid-air like this graphic suggests. 
Yep, unless you're a coroner or some sort of crazy spy / criminologist you probably don't have this stuff lying around the house (hopefully not ...). 
If you're dead set on starting your own glowstick business (worse ideas exist), try websites like Alfa Aesar [1] or Sigma Aldrich [2] for supplies. 
Mix everything well. 
Don't use your hands -- use a metal or plastic utensil of some sort. 
Clean the containers and dry them thoroughly. 
It's important to use sanitary, clean tubes for your glowsticks. 
The last thing you want is other substances interacting with the reactions you're depending on to make the substances glow. 
Set the correct lid next to each container. 
This enables you to seal the containers quickly after filling. 
It's not like the glow will get up and run away from you, but still. 
Combine equal amounts of the first and second solution in the container and close the bottles. 
Shake them up once the lids are on tightly. 
Then turn off the lights! 
If it's not already glowing, something went wrong. 
Do over! 
Watch as the chemical compound creates a colorful glow. 
Take your glowsticks to the party and charge your friends loads of money for them! 
But act quickly ... 
the glow won't last very long. 
Expectations crushed? 
Method two to the rescue! 
The reaction that the luminol and hydrogen peroxide creates doesn't last long at all -- maybe a couple of minutes. 
For something that lasts hours, go to the next method (which is a lot easier to facilitate if you have access to a laboratory, but it's still worth mentioning). 
Method 2 of 2: Using Grammar 
Name your language. 
This is the most fundamental property in all languages. 
You have many names to choose from. 
You can even use a made up word from your made up language like 'Victory' or 'Great Language'. 
The choice is all yours. 
Start off with the highly frequently used words such as 'and' or 'I' or 'one' or 'the'. 
It is recommend that you use short words since they are commonly used. 
An example would be 'ant' for and or 'es' or even 'loo' for the word 'and'. 
Start thinking about the grammar rules. 
For example if the word Bird is 'Vogelaviatiolap' then why not make the word Birds 'Vogelaviatiolaps' since the suffix 's' is added at the end for most languages at plurals. 
If you want to add complication, you can add genders like most European languages like French and German. 
For example, if you want the word 'horse' to be a boy, you may want 'the horse' to be 'Mat Fereder', but a 'cat' to be a girl, you may want, 'the cat' to be 'Fet Kamaow'. 
Consider basing your language on an existing language. 
For example, in my made up language, 'Vogelaviatiolap' means Bird. 
If you haven't guessed, it comes from the following: 
'Vogel' comes from German, which means bird 
'aviatio' comes from English. 
It's uncompleted though, because the word is part of the term 'aviation' 
'lap' comes from Onomatopoeia. 
It's a completed term, but it is supposed to come from 'Flap!' 
Consider basing some of your words from other words you have invented. 
For example, if you invented the word 'China' as 'Khinssa', 'Drink' as 'Bever', and the word 'Accident' as 'Casnondelibreaten', why not make the word 'tea' as 'Khincasnonbever' or 'Bevernondelibreatekin' or even 'Khinssacasnondelibreatenibever'! 
Get inspiration from existing alphabets and words. 
Why not add some non Latin Characters such as ß? 
You can even make the whole language not based on the Latin Alphabet at all like Chinese! 
You can even take some words of languages, altering them or not. 
You can make the word 'pen' as 'penn' or even 'pen'. 
Using the dictionary can ensure you not missing a single word. 
Keep track of all your 
Remember to write down your creations! 
Use your language. 
Get used to using it yourself, and spread it to others. 
Once you feel confident about your language, experiment and expand: 
Grab a book / novel and translate it to your own language. 
Teach your friends this new language. 
As soon as your friends understand your language, communicate to them with it. 
Be fluent in your own made up language and start spreading this to your friends, family and strangers! 
Write your own poem / novel / story with your own made up language. 
If you're really ambitious, set a goal of helping others become fluent in the language. 
One day, maybe you can make it the official language of a country! 
Tips 
Make sure that it is a language that while speaking, you don't get a literal knot in your tongue! 
Remember you should know how to write it. 
For example we write it from left to right, in Arabic it's right to left, Chinese is in columns, and so on. 
Make sure that you and your friend(s) all follow a systematic language system. 
In other words, make sure that you follow the same guidelines. 
Don't use random letters. 
It should make some sense, so that it will be easier to learn and speak with [Example: Don't use oh as e, hello as llo, and See ya as c yah). 
Make sure you practice saying and spelling out many basic words in your language, English examples: is, who, when, of, why, if, what, where, can, may, etc. 
When starting off, follow closely to a language you like. 
This will make grammar much easier to make. 
You must avoid simply copying the grammar rules, however, as this would technically turn your language into a code. 
Practice your language frequently so that you don't forget it! 
Don't forget punctuation! 
As a shortcut, and for a bit of interesting background, add connotation to various letters, preferably vowels. 
To do this, think of various words that begin with / have a lot of a certain vowel. 
For example: austere, acrimony, ebullient, embolden; in this case, the vowel A might carry with it a negative meaning, whereas E would be positive. 
Then, even if you forget your own words without the help of your dictionary, you could still make a good guess based on the composition of the letters. 
Try not to make your words sound like utter and complete gibberish just add a little extra than our regular English language. 
We don't want a knot in your tongue after speaking to your friends. 
Just put marks over the letters or make up something right on the spot, you might have to take some time on this! 
Basing letters on objects (pictographs) is an easy way to start a writing system. 
Try this with a group of friends. 
It's much more fun when there are other people that can understand your language. 
Email or text your friends the language so that they won't be so confused. 
When making a writing system, take a break about every five minutes and come back to it or all your letters will begin to look identical. 
If you want to make other languages, you can use this language as a model and change some letters or sounds to create a different language. 
This makes your first language a proto-language — a language that branches off into a family of languages. 
How to Pack Your Possessions When Moving 
Even if you can't wait to live in your new house, curb your enthusiasm and resist the urge to cram all your possessions any which way into boxes. 
Steps 
Pack one room at a time if possible, and start with items that are least often used. 
Write down a list of everything you are packing, in particular if it's valuable. 
Books, CDs, expensive clothes. 
Also, take note of which item is in which box. 
Use sturdy boxes. 
Fill the box to the brim and seal the lid. 
That way, you can easily stack boxes on top of one another. 
Tape the bottom of the box securely so that it doesn't give way. 
Never fill a box until it is so heavy that you can't lift it safely. 
Spread the heavy items over a few boxes. 
Balance boxes with lighter items like towels or soft toys. 
Pack the lighter items on top. 
Use bubble wrap or newspapers when packing fragile items. 
However, newsprint may smudge so use newspaper selectively. 
Clean paper can be purchased cheaply from moving supply stores. 
Mark boxes. 
Boxes should be marked "Fragile" and "This side up" to prevent mishandling. 
Label each box clearly and which room it belongs to. 
Write on the sides of the box as well. 
Pack a separate box of essentials you may need for the first night at your new house. 
Include items like toiletries, toilet paper, bottled water, snacks and a change of clothes in case you can not unpack everything in time. 
Tips 
Don't label boxes with contents if the contents are valuable. 
Instead of writing "Silver Service - Fragile" you should write something that makes it sound less theft inviting while showing the fragile nature of the contents. 
Example: "Mom's old dishes" instead of "Fine China" 
Tape is cheap. 
Use lots of it. 
Close box bottoms well. 
Get masking tape or packing tape and tape screws and other little things that came out of something back against it. 
You'll want to find the right screw reassemble something without having to pick it out of 100 others when you get there. 
Don't pack one box full of books or paperwork - you might not be able to carry it at all. 
Fill it halfway with books, and fill it up with lighter stuff. 
National superstores (Walmart) will let you walk the store for boxes when they are stocking the stores between 11 pm and 1 am. 
You can find boxes of all sizes. 
Cereal, diaper and houseware boxes are a good size and durable. 
Just take a cart and roam the store. 
They do check the cart as you leave so don't try to sneak anything past them. 
U-haul and other nation companies offer box buy back services. 
If you buy too many boxes you can return the unused for a full refund. 
These boxes are also quite sturdy so you can re-use them or stash in your attic until you move again. 
Some national companies even offer free shipping and handling so you can have some delivered or go to the local location. 
Fill empty spaces with additional paper. 
Throw away or donate junk you don't want to take to your new place. 
Don't pack it again!!! 
Set aside an area of the house where you can put all the packed boxes. 
Use a room that isn't used every day such as the formal dining or living room. 
You won't be tripping over boxes and you can have a better idea of what you have and where things are. 
Pack books and heavy items into smaller boxes. 
Digital Photos - use your camera to document the contents of boxes. 
How to Cope With a Double Parachute Failure 
While skydiving, it is possible (yet extremely unlikely) that both your primary and reserve parachutes will malfunction, leaving you with no method of reducing your velocity. 
In the vast majority of cases, this will not occur; nevertheless, in this event these coping strategies may assist. 
Steps 
Remain calm. 
This may seem obvious, but deep, even breathing (despite the rushing slipstream) and controlling your heart-rate are essential to your continued survival. 
Entreat assistance. 
If both your primary and reserve chutes have malfunctioned, signal immediately to a fellow jumper who has not yet deployed their chute, waving your arms and signalling that your own is not functional. 
If this is a solo jump, then skip to step 6. 
Prepare for deployment. 
After linking arms with your fellow jumper, you will need to hook your arms through their chest strap, or through both sides of the front of their harness, as far as you can, then grab onto your own strap. 
Deploy. 
The shock of the chute deployment will be intense. 
The G-forces will multiply your body weight, making it impossible to hold on; this is why hooking your arms through the harness is essential. 
It is likely that the shock will dislocate or break both your arms; nevertheless this is a small price to pay for your life. 
Prepare for impact. 
If your companion's canopy has successfully opened, then both your chances of survival have dramatically increased. 
With a large and slow canopy, your chances are even better. 
The canopy must be steered away from power lines and similar obstructions; try for a large body of water if you are confident your companion can save you from drowning. 
Alternative: Lack of companions 
If this is a solo jump, which constitutes the minority of skydivers, your only recourse is to ensure that at least one of your own chutes opens. 
In this case, the excellent advice offered by your instructors on assisting chute opening may be of assistance to you. 
If it becomes apparent that you cannot open either of your two parachutes, or that for some other reason they are fatally non-functional, then the following steps may be of some minor assistance. 
Appeal. 
If you are of a religious turn of mind, you may wish at this point to offer a prayer to a god, goddess, protective spirit or guardian angel. 
St Jude, the patron saint of Lost Causes, comes to mind. 
Objectively, this is not likely to help very much; but it may improve your emotional state. 
If you do not have any religious beliefs, or are for another reason unwilling to appeal to your patron deity, skip this step. 
Contemplate. 
As you approach the Earth at, or close to, terminal velocity, you may wish to contemplate your past existence, and the possibility of a future afterlife. 
A strategy that might prove helpful is to consider how fortunate you are that life has been good to you so far. 
Alternatively, if life has not been good to you so far, (and considering your current situation this seems more likely) consider how lucky you are that it will not be troubling you much longer. 
Expect impact. 
You are unlikely to have the time or ability to aim for a soft landing-spot, body of water, or other impact site that might improve your chances of survival. 
There is a minuscule chance that your impact will result in non-life-threatening injuries; if this seems incredibly far-fetched, comfort yourself that double chute failure in modern times is also extremely unlikely, and that you have already beaten worse odds. 
Tips 
Your reserve chute should have been packed by a certified rigger and is moderately less likely to fail; therefore, it may be helpful to focus your efforts on opening your reserve parachute. 
Some humans who have, for various reasons, become aware of their impending death, develop psychological coping strategies to deal with this; for instance, the Kubler-Ross phases of grief. 
Since your own death approaches far more quickly, this is unlikely to be of any use to you. 
Warnings 
Water landings: if you have successfully attached to a companion whose chute opens, keep in mind that both your arms may be broken or dislocated, and you may be unable to swim or tread water before your chute fills and drags you under. 
If, after total chute failure, you land on something soft, it is possible that instead of being killed outright, you may be permanently paralyzed due to spinal injury. 
If you have a strong aversion to this outcome, aiming head-downward before impact in the manner of an Olympic diver may ensure the destruction of your cranium and your immediate demise. 
How to Stop Procrastinating 
If you're a chronic procrastinator, you know the pain and stress that comes with putting things off. 
Although you may have the desire to accomplish something, getting the motivation to do it is a different matter. 
Fortunately, overcoming your procrastination is easy to do when you put your mind to it. 
Side note: If you have anything due right now, and you haven't finished it, leave this article and complete that work. 
Steps 
Create a to-do list. 
Yes, make yourself an old fashioned to-do list with check boxes and everything. 
List everything, big and small, that you have to do for your entire day; break big activities into smaller bits if necessary. 
Then, as you work through your day, check off each of the items on your list. 
You will feel a growing sense of pride as you visually monitor your ever-diminishing list of projects. 
Focus your list on including the things you typically put off, not the things you are sure to do on a regular basis. 
If necessary, set time-frames for your items to be done by. 
For example, list “take the dog for a walk by 12:30” rather than simply “walk the dog.” 
Re-evaluate your list halfway through your day to rank your items based on highest priority. 
Then, tackle the most important ones before looking back at the smaller things to do. 
Keep a notebook by hand before you start your workday. 
Write every thought down that comes up during work. 
Every single to do or things you want to do at that specific moment. 
Don't do it, put it on a list and do it later. 
This prevents you from getting into the "procrastination zone." 
Finish the hard stuff. 
When you have a looming project that's bogging you down and making you unproductive in other areas, tackle it first. 
Finishing the largest item on your list of things to do will make you feel extra productive and give you the boost to do other things you’ve been pushing to the side. 
If your “big project” is something that can’t be done in one sitting, make a list of small parts of it that you can accomplish today. 
Don’t worry about completing the entire thing, but take steps now so that doing so in the future is a breeze. 
Make an ultimate to-do list for this single project, and have it placed somewhere you will see it on a regular basis. 
As you mark things off, you will be motivated to continue doing so, and seeing it on a regular basis will remind you that your project needs to be done. 
Do two-minute tasks. 
Whenever you are presented with something that you don’t want to do or would consider putting off, ask yourself, “will this take me less than two minutes to finish?” 
For many of us, this includes small chores, like taking out the trash or pulling a few weeds, but can include simple tasks in all areas of life. 
Anything that you want to put off but takes two minutes to do - do it. 
Simply force yourself to use the next 120 seconds to be productive and do the duty you normally would push off for hours or days. [1]. 
Create a timed work frenzy. 
If you find yourself being pulled off into the depths of daydreams, set a period of time to do nothing but work. 
Take ten minutes and remove all distractions - your phone, magazines, or thoughts of your attractive love - and go into a working frenzy. 
Force yourself to work productively for ten minutes, and then go back to whatever it was you were doing. 
Chances are, you’ll get into a groove and keep working at a high pace even when your frenzy time is out. 
Working with a timer is generally regarded by most experts as being one of the best ways to develop self-discipline and stop procrastination. 
The most famous method of working to strict time controls (known as time-boxing) involves creating a list of tasks. 
Each task is then assigned an exact amount of time to complete. 
If you don't finish the task in the allotted time, then you move on to the next one. 
Using this work arrangement, it forces you to take action, as you can't afford to waste any time. [2]. 
Give yourself a break. 
If you can’t seem to focus and are working half-heartedly at your tasks, give yourself a brief break. 
Set a timer for ten minutes, and take a nap, read a book, or call your friend. 
Do whatever it is you’ve been daydreaming about so that the temptation is removed once you get back to work. 
Just be sure to follow through with your deadline rather than ignoring it when your alarm finally goes off. 
How to Play Muggle Quidditch 
In the Harry Potter series written by JK Rowling the main wizarding sport is Quidditch. 
However you don't have to have magical powers to play. 
There are many different ways of playing Quidditch, but the most commonly used set of rules are those given by the International Quidditch Association (which can be found here). 
In the past Muggle Quidditch has mainly been played at colleges in the US, but over the last few years there has been a dramatic rise in the number of community teams. 
Quidditch has also spread outside of America and is now played on 5 continents. 
Steps 
Gather all needed materials and players (see Things You'll Need section below). 
Know that all players can play while riding a broom. 
Brooms can be a hindrance however, so feel free to not use brooms. 
Place the quaffle and three bludgers in the middle of the field. 
Ideally the quaffle and bludgers should be slightly deflated so that they are easier to throw and catch. 
Start the game. 
Both teams start from the edges and attempt to obtain the quaffle and bludgers. 
Follow your duty depending what type of player you are: 
Chasers try to score by throwing the quaffle into one of the three goal hoops. 
Each score is worth 10 points. 
Beaters try to peg players with their bludger. 
If a player is pegged they have to stop what they're doing and pay a penalty; i.e. (drop the quaffle in the case of a chaser) and run back to and touch their goal post or alternatively sit down for 10 seconds. 
Keepers guard the goal posts at each end and attempt to block chasers' attempts at scoring. 
If Keeper is close to their hoops they are safe from being hit by bludgers. 
Seekers try to tackle the snitch (a person) or obtain an object attached to the snitch such as a sock or flag. 
You can establish you own rules as to how a player catches the snitch. 
A common way to play is to make the snitch a person, and give the snitch a head start to run and hide in defined boundaries. 
Then the seekers search for the snitch, and attempt to tag the player. 
Other methods, such as the method adopted in 2005, makes the snitch a tennis ball in a sock, hanging out of the running shorts of the snitch runner. 
Regardless of method, the winning seeker wins 30 points for his or her team, unlike the books, in which the snitch is worth 150 points. 
The creators of Muggle Quidditch thought that it was worth too many points so changed the value of the snitch for muggle Quidditch. 
The snitch, generally a track runner, runs around (usually the boundaries) trying to evade the seekers. 
The referee should ensure that rules are being followed. 
They also keep track of the score. 
Play the game! 
The object of the game is to score the most points and the game ends when the seeker snatches the snitch. 
Feel free to alter the game rules. 
See the Tips section for suggestions. 
Video 
How to Play a Real-Life Game of Quidditch 
You don't need flying broomsticks or magic balls to play this version of the game - it's tailor-made for muggles like us. 
This video shows a more realistic approach to playing Quidditch. 
Tips 
Alternatively the snitch can be a small yellow ball (tennis balls work great) that is hidden before the game starts by a bystander or referee. 
Establish boundaries and have the seekers look for the snitch. 
Beaters can try hitting the bludgers around in the air with a shortened hockey sticks or a short bat. 
They could also use regular-length hockey sticks to hit bludgers (perhaps wiffle balls) on the ground. 
The simplest way is to just peg players by throwing dodge balls. 
It may be easier to play without brooms (but also less fun!). 
Remember that the snitch runner, if you choose to use one, is not an actual player in the game, therefore, not bound by any of the rules. 
If desired, the snitch is able to do whatever he or she wants to avoid capture. 
See How to Be a Snitch in Quidditch for more information. 
You can play water quidditch in a pool. 
Almost all the same rules apply. 
Have someone throw something (the snitch) on a line into the pool at regular intervals. 
They can even use fake snitches. 
You can buy authentic looking brooms to make the game more realistic. 
There is a very large Quidditch community, have a look at the IQA website to find teams near you. 
One variation is Quarter Snitch Quidditch. 
Find a quarter or another small coin. 
Have both of the teams turn around and have the referee throw it into the grass or pitch while the teams aren't looking. 
Play while the seekers look for the snitch. 
Another variation is where the referee places the snitch somewhere in the field (in this case it's a small ball). 
The seeker has to find the snitch blindfolded, relying only on the coach's instructions, while the game is still on. 
Warnings 
Stay hydrated and exercise wisely. 
A ball flying in the air can hurt. 
If you're playing quidditch you're probably just having fun so play nicely. 
Things You'll Need 
15 players 
14 brooms 
Field (or big backyard) 
3 goal hoops per team 
Referee (optional) 
Color coded shirts or capes for houses, black for referee 
3 Bludgers (dodge balls, water balloons, wiffle balls etc.) 
1 Quaffle (volleyball, Frisbee, soccer ball, etc.) 
1 Snitch (person) 
Each team is composed of: 
3 Chasers 
2 Beaters 
1 Keeper 
1 Seeker 
How to Prepare Quinoa 
Quinoa is known as the little rice of Peru. 
The Incas treated the crop as sacred and referred to quinoa as "chisaya mama" or "mother of all grains." [1] 
By tradition, the Inca emperor would sow the first seeds of the season using "golden implements." 
Quinoa is rich in protein and much lighter than other grains. 
It is much easier to prepare than rice and is rapidly gaining in popularity, especially among vegetarians who value its high protein levels. 
Ingredients 
1 cup quinoa 
2 cups water (or broth) 
Olive oil to taste (Optional) 
1/2 teaspoon salt (Optional) 
Method 1 Cooking On A Stove Top 
Rinse the grains of quinoa in water. 
You can skip this step if you have purchased pre-rinsed quinoa in a box. 
To rinse, place the measured grain in a strainer under running water for a few minutes. 
This is necessary to remove the excess saponins on the outside of the grains which impart a bitter flavor to quinoa if not removed. 
Toast quinoa in a saucepan (optional). 
Drizzle a bit of olive oil in a pan over medium-high heat. 
Add the quinoa and cook for about 1 minute. 
This brings out quinoa's nutty flavor. 
Cook the quinoa. 
Place two parts water or stock to one part of quinoa in a saucepan over medium-high heat and bring to a boil. 
Cover and reduce heat to low. 
Simmer the quinoa for about 15 minutes or until the grain becomes translucent and the white germ forms a visible spiral on the exterior of the quinoa grain. 
Try to ensure there is an al dente bite to the germ, in the same way as pasta. 
Quinoa will continue cooking for a bit even after you take it off the heat. 
Take the quinoa off the heat and let stand, covered, for 5 minutes. 
This will give it time to absorb any moisture that might still be in the pan. 
Uncover and fluff with a fork. 
The quinoa should look light and fluffy, and you should be able to see the germ separating from the seed. 
Serve. 
Freshly cooked quinoa should be served immediately to retain nutritional value and a good flavor. 
Serve with: 
Stir-fry, using the quinoa as a substitute for rice. 
Curry. 
Braised meat. 
In a salad. 
Virtually any other combination you can think of! 
Method 2 Cooking In a Rice Cooker 
Rinse 1 cup of quinoa in a fine mesh sieve under cold water. 
If you bought packaged quinoa, this step isn't always necessary, but it's better to be safe than sorry. 
Pour quinoa into rice cooker. 
One option is to toast the quinoa before placing in the rice cooker. 
See Step # 2 in Method One above for directions. 
Add 2 cups of liquid and 1/2 teaspoon of salt into the rice cooker. 
Water, chicken stock or broth, or vegetable stock all work. 
Cook for approximately 15 minutes. 
Some rice cooker will have different settings instead of a simple "cook" option. 
Try the "white rice" option if your rice cooker gives you several options. 
Let stand for about 5 minutes. 
Fluff with a fork and serve. 
Method 3 Cooking In the Oven 
Preheat oven to 350 ° F (177 ° C). 
Arrange rack in the middle of the oven. 
Rinse quinoa thoroughly in a fine mesh seive under cold water. 
In a medium saucepan, heat up 2 tablespoons vegetable oil over medium-low heat. 
Add onions, peppers, mushrooms, or any other type of desired vegetable or herb into the saucepan (optional). 
Cook onions until they are translucent, but not burned. 
Sweat the peppers or vegetables along with the onions. 
Add the quinoa and salt to the saucepan, stirring until completely incorporated. 
This should take no longer than 30 seconds. 
Add one cup of broth and one cup of water to the saucepan and bring to a boil over medium high heat. 
Once a boil is reached, transfer quinoa to a 8-by-8-inch baking dish. [2] 
Spread out quinoa evenly and cover baking dish completely with aluminum foil. 
Cook the quinoa in the oven for roughly 20 minutes, or until most of the liquid is gone. 
Remove the aluminum foil from the baking dish, add cheese or other seasonings, and bake for an additional 5 minutes. 
After 5 minutes, the quinoa should be fully cooked. 
Serve and enjoy! 
How to Make Skittles Vodka 
Three Methods: Single Serving (25 mL Shot) 
Bottles of "Skittled" 
Vodka Dishwasher Bottle Method 
Making Skittles vodka is a fun way to add a splash of fruity flavor and color to regular vodka. 
All you need to do is place your favorite combination of Skittles candies into a glass or bottle of vodka and wait for it to infuse. 
You can then use your Skittles vodka to make brightly-colored cocktails or even serve it as a sugary shot! 
Find multiple methods for making Skittles vodka after the jump -- and soon you'll be tasting the rainbow! 
Ingredients 
A handle (1.75 liters, about a half gallon) of vodka per bag of Skittles 
A large bag of Skittles candy (the "movie size" bag) 
Method 1 of 3: Single Serving (25 mL Shot) 
Separate the colors of Skittles that you want to flavor the vodka with. 
Many people choose to leave out the green, which is lime if you're using original Skittles, and purple, which is grape in the original style, as they can create a weird taste combination or a less than appealing color for the final product. 
However, you can put them in if you want. 
If you don't mind mixed flavors, you can just skip this step altogether. 
Add six Skittles to 25 ml of vodka. 
Keep swirling the mixture until the Skittles are almost completely dissolved. 
Note that the ratio of Skittles to vodka varies from recipe to recipe. 
You should experiment to find your preferred mix before making larger bottles. 
Filter out the remaining Skittle "insides". 
With single servings like this, you can decide which flavor(s) you like best and proceed to making bottles, if you desire. 
Method 2 of 3: Bottles of "Skittled" Vodka 
Pour out some vodka from a bottle to make room for Skittles. 
Separate the Skittles by color. 
Add the Skittles (20 - 25 per 350 ml / 11.8 fl oz). 
Let the mixture sit for a day or two. 
Shake occasionally so the flavour mixes well. 
Strain out the Skittles using a filter, such as a paper coffee filter or a clean t-shirt. 
Refrigerate overnight. 
Method 3 of 3: Dishwasher Bottle Method 
Separate the colors from five bags of 200 g Skittles. 
Using 5 x 700 ml / 23.6 fl oz bottles, pour 300 ml / 10.1 fl oz of vodka into a jug and fill each bottle with skittles. 
Place the bottles in your dishwasher and put on an intensive cycle. 
One third of of the way through the cycle, shake all bottles vigorously. 
Two thirds of the way through the cycle, shake all bottles vigorously. 
Once the cycle has finished, shake all bottles vigorously again. 
Then place in the freezer for 2 hours. 
Once the vodka is cold, it should be syrupy. 
Take a sieve, line it with a piece of cheesecloth (muslin) or a coffee filter, place above a large jug and pour the vodka through slowly. 
Once the first bottle has been filtered, wash out the bottle and pour the Skittles vodka back in. 
Repeat the above two steps for all bottles, ensuring that everything is cleaned between uses to prevent color contamination. 
Place all of the bottles in the freezer until you are ready to drink. 
Don't worry, the vodka won't freeze. 
You are finished. 
Enjoy your tasty creation. 
Tips. 
If you want to make it more quickly, cut the skittles in half before putting them into vodka. 
Shake every 15 minutes. 
They'll dissolve in an hour instead of a day. 
Or you could just scoop them out when the color dissolves. 
Start with small amount of vodka and Skittles at first to experiment which combination of taste suits you best. 
You can carry this out with larger amount of vodka and Skittles once you have decided that you enjoy the taste. 
The lime green Skittles add a sourness to the drink, so if you want one that's sweet, leave the green ones out and add them to their own bottle for a sour lime vodka. 
Another approach is to buy five bottles of vodka and five bags of Skittles. 
Then separate the candy and use one flavor for each bottle. 
(Or get four bottles and an empty, to allow room for the skittles.) 
If using a t-shirt to strain, be sure fabric softener or a dryer sheet had not been used with it, lets you get some extra (unwanted) flavoring (and potentially toxic chemicals). 
Warnings 
Drink responsibly. 
Never drink and drive. 
Know your limits, and do not drink to the extent of intoxication. 
Do not drink if underage in your country. 
Things You'll Need 
Each handle of vodka (1.75 liters, about a half gallon) requires a large bag worth of Skittles, so if you plan on doing only one flavor for a flavorful vodka, you'll have to buy 5 large bags of Skittles. 
Coffee filter, cheesecloth / muslin, or an extremely clean T-shirt 
Large funnel or strainer to hold filter 
