the industry of Marriage and Kids, you heard me. 
Marriage is, in and of itself, a noble concept, but it too often leads to kids and kids flat out suck. 
How can I say such an abomination, ask you? 
Look around you and notice all the mind numbing trailor trash cretins out there who should not be procreating, yet they do. 
These are the people who keep Jerry springer on the air. 
These are the kids who will destroy society, because of the crapfest the American family has become under the post hippie culture, you heard again. 
And you might think by reading this I blame the kids..... 
Not so, Kids are what kids are and will do what they do. 
It is literally monkey see and monkey do with them. 
That will likely never change. 
It's the bad parents out there who fuck up their lives and dont seem to understand that once you decide to have kids, it is indeed time to grow up and be a responsible role model for those kids. 
Very few parents do this. 
And this is a direct result of the Politically correct, permissive, time out granting bullshit liberal culture that has caused this. 
When you blame it all on society, there's noone to to take responsibility and all of a sudden you have generation of fucked up kids who are likley smoking, drinking, doing drugs, fucking the neighbor or some internet perv just because you are too lazy to see waht they're doing. 
People like this will never have my sympathy, nor do they deserve my sympathy. 
Look inside yourselves parents, is this you? 
Probably it is. 
Fuck you. 
Stop trying to pawn your brats off on others to "get a break" . 
You made a choice to be a mommy, you dont get a break until they move out, thats the choice that you madea and that's life. 
Tough shit. 
Just because you're stuck, doesnt give you the right to drag down all the singles around you. 
Another time I'll segueway into all the fun work related instances where "Mommies" get out of doing work and hiding behind childcare as the reason. 
This is the insidious conspiracy I call "Mommism". 
It must be stamped out. 
[http://www.newsday.com/news/opinion/ny-vpnasa054135614feb05,0,5979821.story?coll=ny-editorials-headlines] 
(Newsday.com) 
It looks like NASA is ready to sour again after it's devastating loss from the Columbia accident which occurred nearly two years ago. 
Now, NASA engineers and astronauts are almost giddy with "go" fever as the tentative date for the first launch since the Columbia disaster approaches. 
The most important question isn't whether Discovery is technically ready to fly with new safety features and emergency procedures, but whether the agency itself has learned from the crucial errors most common to Challenger and Columbia, errors that grew out of a management culture that discouraged criticism and sacrificed safety for image-puffing and budget-cutting. 
I hope so. 
Seeing another "Columbia" incident can be quite frightening (I woke up to it early in the morning when I was in Texas). 
We don't need another incident as exploring the cosmos is something that keeps our imagination going as a species. 
Maybe one day they will allow space tourism, (hopefully that will be in the near future)although I would recommend that NASA build new shuttles instead of trying to preserve the older ones. 
You do have to give NASA credit on some things as they have eliminated the "fear of reporting failure" culture that probably led to the lack of reporting defects on the Columbia shuttle. 
Instead they are encouraging everyone to come forward if they see any potential problems (as it is clear that overlooked problems could result in unnecessary losses). 
But supporters are pointing a few good things out: 
Clearly, the agency has worked hard at tackling the technical challenges posed by a superb and surprisingly independent-minded investigative panel. 
A few weeks ago, shuttle workers at the Kennedy Space Center received a rocket-like boost in morale with two important deliveries for the next shuttle to carry. 
One is a special tool to detect damage to the thermal-protective tile while in orbit - something the Columbia crew would have welcomed. 
The other is a new fuel tank "guaranteed" by NASA not to shed potentially fatal hunks of insulation. 
NASA has some PR hurdles to overcome in the future. 
But lets hope for their sake (and the sake of all space lovers out there) that they can redefine their image and rekindle the hope of space colonization again. 
Selah. 
-- 
Posted by Hidden Nook to Hidden Nook at 2/7/2005 01:09:32 AM 
Healing the Collective Body 
In George Orwell's influential novel "1984" doublethink is a device promoted by the totalitarian state government to make people accept two irreconcilable ideas at the same time such as "war is peace". 
I see the merit in flowing with duality. 
One of my most cherished dualities is the understanding that we are both autonomous individuals with the power to shape our personal destinies and at the same time we are all one, that there is no separation between you and I, we are all together in this thing called life, we human beings, the birds and the tress, the rocks and the sky, all of it. 
I have written a lot recently about healing the self so today here are a few words on healing our collective body, mind and soul. 
Think of all life, if you will, as one great choir or one grand congregation. 
Our strength is in our unity and harmony. 
Any major dischord and we all suffer. 
Any insult to the collective good brings us all down. 
Living out of synch with nature is the great disease, from that flows all the tributaries we have come to think of as sickness. 
We are only as strong as our weakest, we are only as healthy as the sickest amongst us- playing sports and being in the army taught me that lesson before I was finished being a teenager. 
When the healthy treat the sick with scorn and intolerance it brings us all down. 
When those lucky enough not to have Herpes create a climate of shame and indignity for those of us who do, not only are they hurting us, but they are hurting themselves. 
There is no escape from the collective ocean we all swim in. 
What you project will always come back to either reward or haunt you. 
We are now suffering from the consequences of our rape of the environment, our rejection of the natural for the industrial, and our embrace of violence over peace. 
Jesus said that what you do the least of the people you do to him. 
What are you doing to the least of the people? 
If we are all in this thing together, let's play nice. 
Remember that what you do to yourself affects me and everybody else, remember that what you do to me and anyone else shapes your destiny. 
No matter what progress we make as individuals in becoming healthier, we will never achieve real health until we collectively decide to create a healthier reality. 
Fortunately circumstances will force our hand soon since our collective bad behaviour cannot continue indefinitely. 
In the near future collective choices will need to be made. 
Will we choose to live in harmony with this planet or crash and burn in a conflagration of arrogance and disregard? 
Will we choose to rise about prejudice and intolerance or go down kicking and screaming with holding on to fear and anger? 
There is no health without peace and no peace without health. 
November 2005 
Sunshine Coast, British Columbia, Canada 
Christopher Scipio Homeopath/Herbalist Holistic Viral Specialist 
One Simple Idea. 
One Huge Opportunity. 
What are you searching for? 
More personal freedom? 
More time with your family? 
Independent wealth? 
Freedom from the fear of corporate downsizing? 
Whether you are looking for a part-time income to help pay off your debts or you are looking for the freedom offered by working from home on a full time basis, Agel is the vehicle that can make that happen. 
Agel is a new company and is uniquely positioned to be the next giant in the network marketing industry. 
The company has developed an entirely new category of products. 
Imagine being part of the next industry-changing innovation. 
Innovative Products 
Agel introduces an entirely new category of products called Gelceuticals. 
The company has developed a unique and innovative delivery mechanism for nutritional products. 
This proprietary Gel Suspension technology makes possible single serving packets of Gelceuticals. 
In this delivery format, your body can immediately start receiving the benefits of the product components as the absorption of vitamins, minerals and nutrients is maximized. 
Never before has such a convenient method been available for consuming nutritional products. 
Consider these convenience factors: 
No water needed (as with tablets or capsules) 
Exotic juice benefits without the big bottle (no glass and water weight) 
Single serving packages (imagine the sampling capabilities) 
Perfect for those with difficulty swallowing tablets or capsules 
Faster, more efficient, delivery to the body Learn More 
Revolutionary Compensation 
Agel has created a new compensation structure that is truly revolutionary. 
It is our belief that this compensation plan will produce some of the largest checks in network marketing history. 
The plan can't be described as a binary, a breakaway, a unilevel, or a forced matrix. 
It is a revolutionary hybrid. 
What is long term viability? 
It is not just company longevity. 
If you used to make $100k and now only make $30k, this is not long term viability. 
Ten years later your check should still be the same or greater, fulfilling the promise of long-term residual income. 
The Agel compensation plan includes the principles that ensure that promise can be fulfilled for those who work at it. 
Are you unsure of Agel? 
Take time to discover the unlimited possibilities with Agel! 
The call will feature a host of other field leaders, and our founder and CEO, Glen Jensen. 
This call will smoke! 
You will discover: · How to Create the Security of Residual Income; · Why Agel is the Best Vehicle to Live Your Dreams; · The Amazing Scientific Breakthrough Behind the Products; · How the "Quadra-Plan" Builds Bigger Bonus Checks Faster; · The Support System in Place to Help You Build Stronger; and · The Secret to Lock in a "Legacy" Position! 
Here are the numbers to call: 
620-294-4000 or 620-294-3000 
The Passcode to participate is:5107 
DATE: Tuesday, November 22, 2005 
TIME: 8:00 PM Eastern Standard Time 
LOCATION: Conference Call 
5:00 PT ** 6:00 MT ** 7:00 CT ** 8:00 ET 
I'll see you there! 
Steve Fillmore 612-205-9814 620-294-1909 
Email: "Dharmadeva"<dharmad...@gmail.com> 
Namaskar 
Hi All! 
We now present the kaoshikii dance, which is excellent before and after yoga postures. 
I encourage you to do this dance, as it has tremendous positive effects. 
It is a dance for both males and females. 
Dharma 
-- 
Kaoshikii is a dance which was invented in 1978 by Shrii Shrii A'nandamu'rti. 
It is a psycho-spiritual exercise and benefiting the mind by developing stamina and strength. 
Kaoshikii is especially good for women. 
It can ward off and cure a number of diseases, keeps the body youthful and enables an easy delivery in childbirth. 
Kaoshikii comes from the Sanskrit word 'kosa' meaning shell or layer of mind. 
The self of the individual lies hidden in the innermost layers of existence (kosas). 
Thus kaoshikii is a blossoming of the microcosm (unit being) in its attempt to attain a link with the Macrocosm (Cosmic Consciousness). 
This attempt is normally referred to as mysticism. 
-- 
The Benefits 
Exercises all the glands and limbs from head to toes. 
Increases longevity. 
Makes for easy delivery at childbirth. 
The spine will become flexible. 
Arthritis of the spine, neck, waist and other joints will be removed. 
Gout in the spine, neck, hands and waist will be lost. 
The mind becomes strong and sharp. 
Irregularities in menstruation will be cured. 
Glandular secretions will become regulated. 
Troubles in the bladder and urethra will be cured. 
Gives control over the limbs. 
Adds charm and shine to the face and skin. 
Removes wrinkles. 
Removes lethargy. 
Cures insomnia. 
Cures hysteria. 
Fear complexes will be removed. 
Hopelessness will be lost. 
Helps in self-expression and develops one's potentiality. 
Spinal pain, piles, hernia, hydrocele in men, nervous pain, nervous disability will be cured. 
Cures kidney and gall bladder troubles, gastric trouble, dyspepsia, acidity, dysentery, obesity and liver diseases. 
Increases the capacity to work until 75-80 years of age. 
-- 
The Dance 
The eighteen steps of the dance are done rhythmically. 
First the dancer begins in the starting position: the hands together and raised over the head. 
Then to the beat of "dhin, dhin,... ,ta', ta'", the dancers begin their step, placing the big toe behind the heel of the other foot. 
In the final two steps, the dancers firmly stamp their feet on the ground. 
Kaoshikii can be danced for as many rounds as you like. 
-- 
The Ideation 
When the dancers start the step with the beat of "dhin, dhin...", the mental ideation should also be kept. 
Here is the ideation. 
The two hands when upraised and folded together represent: "Now I am trying to establish a link with Parama Purus'a (Supreme Consciousness)." 
Bending to the right indicates: "I know the right way to request You." 
Bending to the left indicates: "I know how to fulfil Your demands." 
Bending forward suggests: "I completely surrender to You." 
Bending backward represents: "I am ready to face all obstacles that may come." 
The last two steps represent: "O Lord I repeat Your cosmic rhythm." 
Quebecker wins U.S. bravery award 
Pittsburgh - 
A Quebec man was awarded a Carnegie Medal for bravery on Monday for saving two friends by fighting off a polar bear with a pocket knife two years ago on Baffin Island 
Dr. Eric Fortier, 34, of Gatineau, Que., used a pocket knife to attack a polar bear on Baffin Island, just south of the Arctic Circle, to save two friends who were being mauled. 
"All of the research and all of the preparation I did leading up to the trip gave no indication that there were bears in the Soper [River] valley where we were canoeing," Dr. Fortier said. 
Dr. Fortier, an orthodontist, learned there was at least one polar bear in the central region of Baffin Island in July 2001 when he felt what he thought was a dog leaning on his tent wall. 
"My first thought was to push it away," he said. 
"A few seconds later my girlfriend saw the shadow of a bear's paw through the tent fly and then it started ripping through the ceiling." 
The polar bear is more dangerous than most other bears. 
The latter usually consider human beings a threat but the polar bear considers humans a snack, experts said. 
The two screamed to frighten the bear and warn their friends in a tent several metres away but the bear ripped into that tent and began mauling 31-year-old Alain Parenteau. 
"Their screams changed," Dr. Fortier said. 
"I grabbed my glasses and my knife and unzipped my tent and headed out." 
The bear dwarfed the 6-foot-1 Mr. Parenteau, knocking him to the ground, he said. 
Dr. Fortier threw a large rock at the bear, distracting it and allowing Parenteau to escape but it then turned on 25-year-old Patricia Doyon, who was in the same tent. 
Again Dr. Fortier threw rocks at the bear and again its target was able to escape. 
"The bear gave chase and I gave chase," he said. 
"At some point, Patricia tripped or the bear tripped her and was at her back. 
I was beside the bear's head and I stabbed it with an upper cut below the jaw in the neck a couple of times." 
The bear ran off. 
While there was some fur and blood on the nine-centimetre blade, Dr. Fortier said he doesn't think he hurt the bear badly. 
Both Mr. Parenteau and Ms. Doyon, however, were bleeding badly. 
Dr. Fortier and his girlfriend lashed two canoes together and paddled eight kilometres along the Soper River. 
Dr. Fortier travelled another three kilometres by foot to seek help in the nearest settlement. 
Both Mr. Parenteau and Ms. Doyon were airlifted to a hospital and survived, though Mr. Parenteau had a gash within a centimetre of his jugular, Dr. Fortier said. 
Dr. Fortier was one of 15 people to receive the Carnegie Medal on Monday. 
The bronze medal is given to people who "risk their lives to an extraordinary degree while saving or attempting to save the lives of others." 
The other Canadian recipient of the medal was Ronald Joseph Crawford, 42, of Hamilton, who was killed Aug. 4, 2002, while trying to defend a Hamilton sandwich shop owner from a robber wielding a knife. 
Mr. Crawford threw several punches at the assailant before he was stabbed in the heart. 
U.S. industrialist Andrew Carnegie started a hero fund in 1904 after being inspired by rescue stories from a mine disaster that killed 181 people. 
The award comes with a $3,500 (U.S.) grant. 
Important information of big companies 
Apple Computers 
It was the favorite fruit of founder Steve Jobs. 
He was three months late in filing a name for the business, and he threatened to call his company Apple Computers if the other colleagues didn't suggest a better name by 5 O'clock. 
CISCO 
It is not an acronym as popularly believed. 
It is short for San Francisco. 
Compaq 
This name was formed by using COMp, for computer, and PAQ to denote a small integral object. 
Corel 
The name was derived from the founder's name Dr.Michael Cowpland. 
It stands for COwpland REsearch Laboratory. 
Google 
The name started as a joke boasting about the amount of information the search-engine would be able to search. 
It was originally named 'Googol', a word for the number represented by 1 followed by 100 zeros. 
After founders - Stanford graduate students Sergey Brin and Larry Page presented their project to an angel investor, they received a cheque made out to 'Google' 
Hotmail 
Founder Jack Smith got the idea of accessing e-mail via the web from a computer anywhere in the world. 
When Sabeer Bhatia came up with the business plan for the mail service, he tried all kinds of names ending in 'mail' and finally settled for hotmail as it included the letters "html" - the programming language used to write web pages. 
It was initially referred to as HoTMaiL with selective uppercasing. 
Hewlett Packard 
Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard tossed a coin to decidewhether the company they founded would be called Hewlett-Packard or Packard-Hewlett. 
Intel 
Bob Noyce and Gordon Moore wanted to name their new company 'Moore Noyce' but that was already trademarked by a hotel chain so they had to settle for an acronym of INTegrated ELectronics. 
Lotus (Notes) 
Mitch Kapor got the name for his company from 'The Lotus Position' or 'Padmasana'. 
Kapor used to be a teacher of Transcendental Meditation of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. 
Microsoft 
Coined by Bill Gates to represent the company that was devoted to MICROcomputer SOFTware. 
Originally christened Micro-Soft, the '-' was removed later on. 
Motorola 
Founder Paul Galvin came up with this name when his company started manufacturing radios for cars. 
The popular radio company at the time was called Victrola. 
ORACLE 
Larry Ellison and Bob Oats were working on a consulting project for the CIA (Central Intelligence Agency). 
The code name for the project was called Oracle (the CIA saw this as the system to give answers to all questions or something such). 
The project was designed to help use the newly written SQL code by IBM. 
The project eventually was terminated but Larry and Bob decided to finish what they started and bring it to the world. 
They kept the name Oracle and created the RDBMS engine. 
Later they kept the same name for the company. 
Sony 
It originated from the Latin word 'sonus' meaning sound, and 'sonny' a slang used by Americans to refer to a bright youngster. 
SUN 
Founded by 4 Stanford University buddies, SUN is the acronym for Stanford University Network. 
Andreas Bechtolsheim built a microcomputer; Vinod Khosla recruited him and Scott McNealy to manufacture computers based on it, and Bill Joy to develop a UNIX-based OS for the computer. 
Yahoo! 
The word was invented by Jonathan Swift and used in his book 'Gulliver's Travels'. 
It represents a person who is repulsive in appearance and action and is barely human. 
Yahoo! Founders Jerry Yang and DavidFilo selected the name because they considered themselves yahoos... 
I am on Yahoo ! 
Email : mayur...@yahoo.com SMS : +919819602175 Web : 
Hi all, 
There are already several forums around the net focused on discussing Guild Wars, so why create a new one? 
I say why not? 
The main reason is Google is more accessible to the global community and you can rest assured that it's not going to go away. 
I have seen great fan sites suddenly disappear without notice and for no reason. 
Usually this happens because the developer of the site can no longer afford the cost of bandwidth being used. 
That said, the maintenance of this forum is handled by Google and thus will remain reliable and it will ultimately give us more time to play :). 
I'm nothing more than a devoted fan of the game myself and I hope that this area can become a haven for deep fan discussions. 
Regards, 
Humanpixel 
Aye! 
Good Day Mate! 
Im really looking forward to Guild Wars. 
Anyone know a release date? 
Feb 2005 
Feb 2005 is the projected release date, although Guild Wars is made by ex-members of Blizzard, so Feb 2005 could mean August 2006... 
Anyway, I tried to get a preorder but no places were selling it so I missed out on 2/3 weekend events. 
Oh well, I'll get it when it comes out in Febuary. 
rumor has feb 05 on the calender. 
BUT they stated that they will take as long as it takes to work out all the bugs so who really know how long. 
as far as pre order go to and they have a list of major retailers that carry it there are also a few websites that you could order it off of. 
and a good reason for starting this group....company firewalls lol ;) 
I was kind of curious, what exactly is Guild Wars? 
I havn't heard of it. 
Check out the Guild Wars Web site at for more info about the game. 
It's a massive multiplayer role playing game. 
The graphics are without a doubt the amoung the best graphics I have ever seen for any game and I have been gaming since the MUD days. 
It's worth a look. 
I have a preorder and am even considering getting a second preorder to have multiple accounts. 
I have participated in all the weekend beta events and the world preview. 
The game is already 100% functional. 
I can't imagine them not being able to meet the Feb 05 deadline. 
Warm greetings to all in this GW community. 
I am Lady Kingel and I hail from the United Legit Gaming Guilds of Guild Wars. 
We are a consortium of legit honorable guilds that was established in 1997 for DI and we are now adding GW to the list of games played. 
The alliance is a pretty straightforward one. 
It was formed to allow many different guilds who were all strictly honorable to come together as a family and allow them many people to game with. 
There are no other requirements other than we ask that members greet each new member and each new alliance and also feel free to post in any of the forums. 
We are also a group who is looking for members for our own select guild called ULGG of GW...which is a part of the alliance with the same name. 
We play in all aspects of the game and we hand pick our members. 
I would like to personally invite each of you to visit our website. 
You are individuals of quality, and in our alliance we seek quality of member over quantity of member. 
You will be asked to register, and then you should wander over to the Announce Your Arrival Section and present yourself. 
You will be greeted by many members of this wonderful family. 
I do hope to see you visiting us at the fire and we shall prepare a feast for you, as well. 
If you paste this in your browser, it will take you directly to our GW website. 
I extend my hand to each of you in true friendship, and honor. 
Come and say hello...you will be warmly welcomed! 
We are currently moving to a new server, so we will be down for a while. 
I will inform when we are up and running again. 
I wish all happy holidays, and moreso, peace on earth. 
Kingel 
Dear Judges, Lawyers, Policemen, Guards, Counselors, Taxpayers, et. al., 
We are here. 
Like it or not, for good or bad, we are here. 
Who are we? 
We are the downtrodden and dispossesed, the self-torturing, the disenfranchised convicts, drug and alcohol addicts, the unemployed and unemployable. 
We are the children of poverty, financial and spiritual. 
We have and will have children of our own, grandchildren too. 
We are ex-cons, uninsured, homeless, of many colors and speaking many tongues. 
We are the enemy in what has become a domestic war against ourselves. 
And who are you? 
You who like the tough talk of Tough on Crime? 
You who watch as budgets are cut in education and health care while you militarize a police force? 
Bullet-proof vests, automatic weapons, helicopters, tanks, robots ... the testosterone is oozing through the streets, more prisons, longer sentences, tighten the belt, spartan conditions, task forces, gang units, gun courts. 
And what is there to show for it? 
Unemployent stays low because half the population oversees those "out of the workforce", the dregs, the rabble, the enemy? 
Please tell me there is a deeper reason. 
Do you feel safer? 
More humane? 
More like a cohesive society with a shared sense of purpose, who can identify Us and Them? 
Do you live in a gated community or gentrified neighborhood? 
By the way, have you read the Declaration of Independence and US Constitution - or do you only know the first phrases? 
It's about time we got together. 
Please know that I have yet to meet a convict who wants their child to be a thief, an addict, a dealer, a prostitute, or a violent individual. 
Most of us still have hope for ourselves even when stuck in the darkest dilemmas, ruts and catch-22s. 
Most of us believe in crafting laws and instilling order. 
Many of us have burrowed beneath the surface to find a spiritual sense of being, an understanding force at least as powerful as those we succumbed to, and many of use wouldn't escape if you opened the front door. 
Did you know that approximately 10 million Americans are either incarcerated, on probation, on parole or once were in those categories? 
Each of those 10 million have families, friends, neighbors ... and so closer and closer does the We interface with the You. 
Don't you think it's time we talked? 
Are you ready? 
Can you accept that the road we are travelling points toward a grim and painful future? 
Do you have the heart to face monumental failures while bravely struggling beyond where we are now? 
I know that some of you are, and that some of us are, and this is what gives me hope. 
You need our insights just as we need your structure. 
It is never over, especially when a real solution, a real treatment for our sickness, is yet to begin. 
In Solidarity, 
Bruce Reilly (a.k.a Bruha) P.O.Box 8274 Cranston, RI 02920 USA 
P.S. - I am trying to conceptualize an effective guerilla media campaign to promote this cause. 
Ideas are welcome. 
Collaboration is prayed. 
an annotated text of the bill, read the article by D. Singmaster in "The Mathematical Intelligencer" v7 #2, pp 69-72. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- 
Subject: Where can I get the necessary software to get a "smart" mail system running on my machine that will take advantage of the postings in comp.mail.maps? (E.g., pathalias, smail, etc.) 
There are a couple of packages available through the supporters of the comp.sources.unix archives. 
If sites next to you don't have what you want, contact your nearest comp.sources.unix archive, or the moderator. 
Information on archive sites, and indices of comp.sources.unix back issues are posted regularly in comp.sources.unix and comp.sources.d. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----- 
Subject: What is "food for the NSA line-eater"? 
This refers to the alleged scanning of all Usenet traffic by the National Security Agency (and possibly other intelligence organizations) for interesting keywords. 
The "food" is believed to contain some of those 
Email: "Peanutjake"<peanutjak...@usa.com> 
Groups: misc.consumers 
Subject: IMMEDIATE ATTENTION NEEDED: 
HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL URGENT ASSISTANCE - FROM USA 
FROM: GEORGE WALKER BUSH 202.456.1414 / 202.456.1111 FAX: 202.456.2461 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
I am GEORGE WALKER BUSH, son of the former president of the United States of America George Herbert Walker Bush, and currently serving as President of the United States of America. 
This letter might surprise you because we have not met neither in person nor by correspondence. 
I came to know of you in my search for a reliable and reputable person to handle a very confidential business transaction, which involves the transfer of a huge sum of money to an account requiring maximum confidence. 
I am writing you in absolute confidence primarily to seek your assistance in acquiring oil funds that are presently trapped in the republic of Iraq. 
My partners and I solicit your assistance in completing a transaction begun by my father, who has long been actively engaged in the extraction of petroleum in the United States of America, and bravely served his country as director of the United States Central Intelligence Agency. 
In the decade of the nineteen-eighties, my father, then vice-president of the United States of America, sought to work with the good offices of the President of the Republic of Iraq to regain lost oil revenue sources in the neighboring Islamic republic of Iran. 
This unsuccessful venture was soon followed by a falling-out with his Iraqi partner, who sought to acquire additional oil revenue sources in the neighboring emirate of Kuwait, a wholly-owned U.S.-British subsidiary. 
My father re-secured the petroleum assets of Kuwait in 1991 at a cost of sixty-one billion U.S. dollars ($61,000,000,000). 
Out of that cost, thirty-six billion dollars ($36,000,000,000) were supplied by King Hussein, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf monarchies, and sixteen billion dollars ($16,000,000,000) by German and Japanese partners. 
But my father's former Iraqi business partner remained in control of the republic of Iraq and its petroleum reserves. 
My family is calling for your urgent assistance in funding the removal of the President of the Republic of Iraq and acquiring the petroleum assets of his country, as compensation for the costs of removing him from power. 
Unfortunately, our partners from 1991 are not willing to shoulder the burden of this new venture, which in its upcoming phase may cost the sum of 100 billion to 200 billion dollars ($100,000,000,000 - $200,000,000,000), both in the initial acquisition and in long-term management. 
Without the funds from our 1991 partners, we would not be able to acquire the oil revenue trapped within Iraq. 
That is why my family and our colleagues are urgently seeking your gracious assistance. 
Our distinguished colleagues in this business transaction include the sitting vice-president of the United States of America, Richard Cheney, who is an original partner in the Iraq venture and former head of the Halliburton oil company, and Condoleeza Rice, whose professional dedication to the venture was demonstrated in the naming of a Chevron oil tanker after her. 
I would beseech you to transfer a sum equaling ten to twenty-five percent(10-25 %) of your yearly income to our account to aid in this important venture. 
The Internal Revenue Service of the United States of America will function as our trusted intermediary. 
I propose that you make this transfer before the fifteenth (15th) of the month of April. 
I know that a transaction of this magnitude would make anyone apprehensive and worried. 
But I am assuring you that all will be well at the end of the day. 
A bold step taken shall not be regretted, I assure you. 
Please do be informed that this business transaction is 100% legal. 
If you do not wish to co-operate in this transaction, please contact our intermediary representatives to further discuss the matter. 
I pray that you understand our plight. 
My family and our colleagues will be forever grateful. 
Please reply in strict confidence to the contact numbers below. 
Sincerely with warm regards, 
George Walker Bush Switchboard: 202.456.1414 Comments: 202.456.1111 Fax: 202.456.2461 e-mail: presid...@whitehouse.gov 
US battles to save storm victims 
Watch the airlift 
Emergency teams in the southern US are battling to reach survivors of Hurricane Katrina, the most destructive storm to hit the country in decades. 
Hundreds of people are feared dead in Mississippi, and the Louisiana city of New Orleans is badly flooded. 
The city mayor said rescuers were unable to retrieve the dead. 
"They're just pushing them aside," he said. 
Amid worsening conditions, officials plan to evacuate a New Orleans stadium where up to 20,000 people took shelter. 
The Superdome stadium is without power, and toilets are overflowing. 
Map of central New Orleans 
"It's a very, very desperate situation," Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco said. 
[an error occurred while processing this directive] 
One resident of New Orleans said escaping from the storm was "hell". 
"We were screaming, hollering, flashing lights. 
It was complete chaos," Kioka Williams told the Associated Press news agency. 
She had to hack her way through the ceiling of her beauty shop as flood waters rose in the city of half a million people - much of which lies below sea level. 
Flooding 
Walls keeping water out of the bowl-shaped city have been breached, and emergency teams are using helicopters to drop 1,350kg (3,000lb) sandbags and concrete barriers into the gaps. 
Before the phones went, I was told [my family in Biloxi] had lost their roof, barn, 2 oak trees and many pines and they were letting in water 
Natalie McVeigh Oakley, England 
Your Katrina experiences 
Blogging Katrina 
New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin said up to 80% of the city was submerged, in some cases by waters 6m (20ft) deep. 
He warned water levels could still rise. 
"Some sections of the city which are dry now could see nine or 10 feet (some 3m) of water," he said. 
The US Army Corps of Engineers says it could take a month to clear the flood waters, and the government's disaster relief agency has urged evacuees not to try to get back to their homes. 
The BBC's Alastair Leithead in New Orleans says there is panic as vital supplies run out. 
Heavily armed police have been trying to impose a form of martial law to stem outbreaks of looting. 
While some looters are stealing non-essential goods, others are simply trying to find food and water. 
'Hundreds dead' 
The situation appears to be even worse in Mississippi. 
"You're going to be looking at hundreds dead along the coast," a state official said. 
[an error occurred while processing this directive] 
Casinos housed in barges have been hurled onto the beach and beyond. 
Tens of thousands are homeless, and officials say it could be weeks before power is restored. 
"I can only imagine that this is what Hiroshima looked like 60 years ago," said Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour after viewing the destruction from the air. 
Survivors are being found all the time, including two children who lost their parents. 
Harrison County in Mississippi bore the brunt of Hurricane Katrina as it slammed into Biloxi and Gulfport before heading inland. 
Mississippi media earlier reported 54 people killed in the state. 
In Biloxi, 30 people were reported dead in one block of flats which was hit by a 9m (30ft) "storm surge". 
The town's death toll may be "in the hundreds", municipal spokesman Vincent Creel said. 
Mobilising 
Louisiana's Governor Blanco urged residents to spend Wednesday in prayer and assured them the crisis would eventually be overcome. 
Follow Katrina's path 
The US Red Cross has mobilised thousands of volunteers for its biggest-ever natural disaster effort and federal emergency teams are being dispatched to affected areas. 
President George W Bush, who has cut his holiday two days short, has called on Americans to donate to the Red Cross or other organisations. 
Damage estimates of more than $25bn suggest it could be the US insurance industry's most expensive natural disaster ever. 
The price of crude oil on the international market hit a record $70.85 a barrel due to the vulnerability of oil and gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico. 
The US energy secretary has announced that oil will be released from government petroleum reserves. 
Return to the top 
MOON LANDING HOAX: CHURCH = TECHNOLOGY & GOVERNMENT - Shuttle Carried on Aircraft model 
Q: NASA IS A WASTE! 
( Answered, 2 Comments ) 
Question 
Subject: NASA IS A WASTE! 
Category: Science > Astronomy 
Asked by: yheggy-ga 
List Price: $2.00 
Posted: 25 Oct 2004 18:32 PDT 
Expires: 24 Nov 2004 17:32 PST 
Question ID: 420072 
How much money does the USA give NASA per year? 
Answer 
Subject: Re: NASA IS A WASTE! 
Answered By: googlenut-ga on 25 Oct 2004 19:14 PDT 
Hello yheggy-ga, 
On September 21, 2004, the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee approved $16.379 billion in funding for NASA for fiscal year 2005. 
This is a $200 million increase over what NASA received for fiscal year 2004. 
U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations 
Press Release 
September 21, 2004 
"National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA): is funded at $16.379 billion, an increase of $200 million over the FY04 enacted level, and a reduction of $665 million from the budget request. 
An additional $800 million in emergency funding was added for NASA during the Committee's consideration of the bill. 
-- The return to flight activities for the Shuttle program are funded at $4.319 billion, the requested level from the Administration. 
-- The International Space Station is funded at $1.6 billion. 
The bill reduces ISS operations by $120 million due to the continued reduced capability of the ISS for at least half of FY05. 
-- The Moon/Mars vision: 
--- The Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV) is funded at $268 million. 
--- A lunar exploration mission is funded at $20 million. 
--- $10 million is provided for Centennial Challenges. 
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (NRC): is funded at $115 million, the same as FY04 and the budget request." 
Spacetoday.net 
Senate increases NASA funding 
"The Senate Appropriations Committee used a somewhat controversial technique Tuesday to increase NASA's fiscal year 2005 budget by $200 million over what President Bush requested. 
The committee voted to give NASA $16.4 billion in 2005, about $200 million more than what the President requested and over $1 billion more than what House appropriators approved in July." 
I hope you have found this information helpful. 
If you have any questions, please request clarification prior to rating the answer. 
Googlenut 
Google Search Terms: 
nasa funding 
Comments Log in to add a comment 
Subject: Re: NASA IS A WASTE! 
From: saem_aero-ga on 26 Oct 2004 18:11 PDT 
Excellent answer googlenut. 
Let me add some additional info. 
You can get details about NASA spending here, from their own webpage. 
Also, from their own webpage, reasons why NASA is important, in a 5th grade format. 
I guess if you are someone not familiar with how NASA benefits our society I can see how one might form the opinion of yheggy-ga. 
Let me put it this way - If you have watched TV recently, crossed a modern bridge, flown in an airplane, recieved any form of modern medicine, did any mathematics, drove a car, used a cellular phone, etc. then you have somehow directly reaped the rewards which NASA has returned to us. 
Also NASA has a large outreach program for education, some people believe this is important. 
Best, Steve. 
Subject: Re: NASA IS A WASTE! From: jaqamofino-ga on 26 Apr 2005 06:02 PDT 
i believe that NASA is a HUGE waste of tax payers' money, but there are so many huge wastes of tax payer monies, that i find it best not to think about it. 
i also think the National Endowment for the Arts is a waste, but i guess i would rather see my money go to the NEA than NASA. 
of course, in a perfect world, tax payers' money would go toward some sort of national healthcare program, and housing for the homeless, but this is far from a perfect world. 
in response to Steve's comment: do you really believe that spending trillions on space exploration over the years was the ONLY way to invent the cellfone? 
and bridges??? 
i find that extremely hard to believe. 
i think it could have been done in a much more cost efficient way, right here on bad-old-planet-earth. 
just my two cents. 
thanks for listening. 
Please take a moment to read this. 
I realize that it may sound strange, but we are desparate in our efforts and are willing to try anything to help our dear sick friend. 
This costs absolutely nothing, and will take about one minute of your time. 
This is not a hoax, as so many of these emails actully are. 
In quick summary, Beyond Control, a local band in our area, is sponoring a benefit for a cancer victim whose benefits have run out. 
That band is involved in a local competition which promises a $5000 first prize, which they would like to win in order to donate it to the benefit fund which they have started. 
Below are some emails to friends explaining a little more about this effort. 
What we are trying to do is solicit votes for the band, in order to put them in first place. 
They are currently in third place, and need your help so that the prize money can be used for a humanatarian cause. 
You can vote at the following link, it will only take a few seconds. 
Please take a moment to click on the link below and cast your vote for Beyond Control. 
Thank you in advance for your contribution to this effort. 
Also, please pass this along to everyone you know, and all of your email contacts. 
We need the power of the internet to pull this off. 
The web site is 
You can check the validity of all of this at the Beyond Control website. 
That address is . 
The home page for Rockin on the River is , and it lists all the acts scheduled for the season. 
You can check that out as well, to confirm that this is all real, and for a worthy cause. 
Abby is our beloved friend, and we are trying to raise money for her any way we can, so this prize money is important to help her continue to receive her life-saving treatments. 
Many thanks, and may God bless you all and keep you healthy. 
Here are some emails we have sent, along with the flyer for the Benefit fund raiser we are holding in June, just for your information. 
Roy, 
I am sending you some info that I have passed along regarding the effort to win the cash for the fund raising benefit. 
If you can pass this info along, and ask everyone you know to forward it to their contacts, etc, we may have a shot at pulling this off. 
Thanks, 
Fred 
John, 
I will attach the letter explaining the benefit we are sponsoring. 
There is a link to the contest page. 
Any help in distributing this will be greatly appreciated. 
It is certainly for a good cause. 
Abby needs to fly to New York twice a month for these treatments, and her time on the Federal Grant program has expired. 
She doesn't have the funds to continue without the grant, and without these treatments, her prognosis is grim. 
I hope you have a huge network. 
Also encourage your recipients to forward this along to their contacts, and so on, so that the movement to help her grows exponentially. 
We must finish in first place in order to contribute the $5000 to the benefit fund. 
Thank you so much for caring enough to offer your help. 
Fred 
BENEFIT AUCTION & RAFFLE FOR ABBY FREEMAN 
WHEN: JUNE 12, 2005, 2:00 P.M. TO 2:00 A.M. 
WHERE: MAIN STREET SALOON 
ADMISSION: DONATIONS AT THE DOOR 
Abby Freeman is our good friend who has non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and she needs your help! 
Her grant for the life saving treatments she needs has run out, and we need to help her to continue to receive these treatments. 
Abby has three wonderful young children, and friends who love her and need her. 
Please help us to help her win this fight. 
With your help, we know she can do it!! 
We'll have four bands, and Big D is cookin' ..... lots of fun and great prizes. 
This is an event you don't want to miss!! 
Bands, food, and prizes are sponsored by Beyond Control, who will be competing in the Band of the Year Contest at the River Front Festival in Cuyahoga Falls on July 1. 
The winner of this competition will receive $5000, which Beyond Control hopes to win in order to donate it to the Abby Freeman fund. 
Please help us by logging onto the Rockin on the River website at . 
Cast a vote for Beyond Control, and help us provide Abby with her life saving treatments again. 
Donations can also be made through Charter One Bank. 
Make checks payable to Kendel Bunnell c/o Benefit for Abby Freeman 
By Richard Spencer 
(Filed: 19/11/2004) 
China's insatiable demand for energy is prompting fears of financial and diplomatic collisions around the globe as it seeks reliable supplies of oil from as far away as Brazil and Sudan. 
An intrusion into Japanese territorial waters by a Chinese nuclear submarine last week and a trade deal with Brazil are the latest apparently unconnected consequences of China's soaring economic growth. 
Increased car usage in China is creating a high demand for petrol 
The connection, however, lies in an order issued last year by President Hu Jintao to seek secure oil supplies abroad - preferably ones which could not be stopped by America in case of conflict over Taiwan. 
The submarine incident was put down to a "technical error" by the Chinese government, which apologised to Japan. 
But even before the incident the People's Daily, the government mouthpiece, had commented that competition over the East China Sea between the two countries was "only a prelude of the game between China and Japan in the arena of international energy". 
The Brazil trade deal included funding for a joint oil-drilling and pipeline programme at a cost that experts said would add up to three times the cost of simply buying oil on the market. 
The West, however, has paid little attention to these developments. 
For the United States and Europe are far more concerned with the even more sensitive issues of China's relations with "pariah states". 
In September, China threatened to veto any move to impose sanctions on Sudan over the atrocities in Darfur. 
It has invested $3 billion in the African country's oil industry, which supplies it with seven per cent of its needs. 
Then, this month, it said that it opposed moves to refer Iran's nuclear stand-off with the International Atomic Energy Agency to the United Nations Security Council. 
A week before, China's second biggest state oil firm had signed a $70 billion deal for oilfield and natural gas development with Iran, which already supplies 13 per cent of China's needs. 
China has its own reserves of oil and natural gas and once was a net oil exporter. 
But as its economy has expanded by an average of nine per cent per year for the last two decades, so has its demand for energy. 
This year it overtook Japan as the world's second largest consumer of energy, behind the US. 
Its projected demand, boosted by a huge rise in car ownership as well as the need to find alternatives to polluting coal for electricity generation, has contributed to the surge in the price of oil this year. 
Shortages are already leading to power cuts in the big cities. 
Since President Hu ordered state-owned oil firms to "go abroad" to ensure supply, they have begun drilling for gas in the East China Sea, just west of the line that Japan regards as its border. 
Japan protested, to no avail, that the project should be a joint one. 
The two are also set to clash over Russia's oil wealth. 
China is furious that Japan has outbid it in their battle to determine the route of the pipeline that Russia intends to build to the Far East. 
Japan favoured a route to the sea, enabling oil to be shipped to both Japan and China. 
China wanted an overland route through its own territory, which would give it ultimate control if hostilities broke out. 
Increasingly, analysts are saying that China's efforts have gone beyond what is safe or even in its own interests. 
Claude Mandil, the executive director of the International Energy Agency in Paris, said the reserves in the East China Sea were hardly worth the trouble. 
"Nobody thinks that there will be a lot of oil and gas in this part of the world," he said. 
"It may be a difficult political issue but I don't think the energy content is worthwhile." 
Eurasia Group, a New York-based firm of political analysts, said its oil experts worked out that China was paying such an inflated price for its investment in Brazil that the cost for the oil it ended up with was three times the market price. 
"If China's economy falters, which, in my view, appears increasingly likely, then commodity prices will plummet, and with them, the value of the assets that produce them," Jason Kindopp, Eurasia's lead China analyst, said. 
"Beijing may end up in a early 1990s Japan situation, where it is forced to sell recently purchased overseas assets for a fraction of what it paid for them." 
China's wider aggression to secure oil and gas was the greatest threat to its international standing in the next decade. 
"Sudan is the primary example," he said. 
"It marks the first time in recent years that China has promised to wield its veto power in the UN Security Council against a petition initiated by the United States and backed by France and Great Britain." 
Email: dharmad...@gmail.com 
Visualizations as a helpful beginning technique 
----------------------------------------------- 
If you consider that you still need the assistance of other visualizations to help the mind feel the spirit of transcendence, try the following before moving onto the more formal method below. 
Visualisations can be as useful tools, but meditation is more than that. 
Meditation has to do with what is called ideation. 
It is always good to stick to a formal intense meditation practice like the one for beginners described in the MP3 file that follows after the visualisations. 
Find a comfortable place on the floor and sit with your legs crossed. 
Place your hands one on top of the other in your lap, keep your back straight, eyes closed and tongue on the roof of your mouth. 
Your breathing should be calm and relaxed, through the nose. 
Spend a minute or so concentrating on your breath, feeling the air flowing through your nostrils. 
1. Warm Sun Visualization 
Continue to breathe slowly and deeply. 
With each breath, feel the muscles in your body becoming lighter and lighter, and also your external motor and sensory organs are feeling like they are withdrawing from the world into a special inner quietness. 
Imagine the tension melting away as you continue breathing rhythmically and naturally. 
Picture yourself sitting on a warm, tropical beach basking in the glow of the sun ... . 
Visualize the vivid, beautiful colours of the earth (its flowers and plants), the sea next to you, and the sky above you. 
Feel yourself floating above the earth and sea. 
As you sit above the world, the warmth of the golden sun penetrates your body and makes you feel warmer and warmer. 
It surrounds you. 
The golden rays feel soft and soothing. 
Now you are far above the earth - into space. 
Everything around you is so vast. 
Yet, there is warmth and a familiarity with the vastness. 
You want to merge your mind with the greater universal Mind that surrounds you. 
Continue to ideate on this intense desire for your mind to merge with the that universal Consciousness. 
And while doing so continue using the Baba Nam Kevalam mantra (breathe in with Baba Nam, breathe out with Kevalam). 
Try this for 5 to 10 minutes. 
Now come back to earth again - slowly. 
Imagine yourself sitting on the beach serenely and restfully. 
Your muscles are loose and limp. 
Feel your body sinking slightly into the sand making that earthly connection again. 
The sun's rays and warmth are still with you, surrounding you. 
You are in a state of peace and relaxation. 
With each breath, watch your body and ensure that it remains relaxed - at peace. 
Continue to feel the warmth of the sunlight all over your body, warming you deeply and gently. 
You want to bring something back with you from your deep space experience where you sensed your mind merging with the universal Mind. 
This will be the warmth of the sun - a close reminder and link between earth and the infinite space. 
Visualize the inside of your body bathed in the golden light, absorbing every ray and glowing as radiantly as the sun. 
A warm, gentle breeze swirls around your body and relaxes you even more .
Let your mind and body be totally at peace. 
Now feel yourself returning to where you sit ... move your hands and feet a little, stretch them. 
Open your eyes. 
2. Mountain Visualization 
Another thing you can try. 
Imagine you're sitting on top of a mountain, and that it's the most peaceful place you can think of. 
Feel that you're sitting there in complete peace, right on top of the world. 
Now imagine that infinite happiness is surrounding you in every direction. 
Feel you're completely surrounded by that infinite peace and happiness. 
Now start to repeat within your mind the mantra: BABA NAM KEVALAM. 
Its meaning is "Infinite happiness is everywhere". 
Feel the meaning, don't just think of its wordy meaning or try to translate from Sanskrit (BABA NAM KEVALAM) to an English meaning (Infinite peace and happiness). 
Think internally, intuitively, not by words, of the meaning, as you're repeating it. 
This is called ideation. 
It is important to take the idea, not just the intellectual analysis. 
Touching deep into the idea is what builds intuition - it is a synthetic process. 
Whereas, trying to translate and grapple with wordy meanings is an intellectual mechanism - an analytical process. 
Feel you're surrounded by infinite peace and happiness, and feel that your own sense of existence is in direct contact with that endless peace and happiness all around you. 
You can go further and feel that your unit consciousness, a dot in the Infinite Consciousness, is merging with Infinity. 
Continue for as long as you like, then open your eyes. 
OK that is fairly basic :). 
The important point is to develop some psycho-spiritual connection between your mind and the universal Consciousness or Supreme Consciousness. 
Don't worry if you have trouble concentrating on the mantra and ideation - that's normal. 
It takes some time and practice to be able to focus on the one thought. 
The main thing is to keep practicing. 
If you don't practice, then nothing happens. 
Well maybe a miracle could happen, but lets face it we're ordinary people and so require practical day to day techniques! 
--- 
NORTH CAROLINA RELIGIOUS COALITION FOR MARRIAGE EQUALITY 
From what we hear from the news media, one could easily conclude that all Christians are opposed to gay marriage. 
But that’s not the case. 
Last year an organization named the North Carolina Religious Coalition for Marriage Equality was formed to get out the message that at least some people of faith are not opposed to extending the rights and responsibilities of civil marriage to same-gender couples. 
One of “NCRC4ME’s” major efforts is to collect signatures for the attached “Declaration of Religious Leaders,” which has been and will again be presented to members of the NC legislature. 
It presents the case for marriage equality and states, “We are resolved that the State should not interfere with same-gender couples who choose to marry and share fully and equally in the rights, responsibilities, and commitments of civil marriage.” 
A measure to amend the NC Constitution to ban gay marriage was defeated last year but already has been reintroduced in the 2005 legislative session, so there is a real need for visible support for the “pro-same-gender-marriage” side of this issue. 
At its February meeting the CHS Vestry voted unanimously to add their names to the Declaration. 
Our Rector Barbara and our Deacon Clare also have signed the Declaration. 
Furthermore, the Vestry voted unanimously to invite the support of members of the CHS congregation for the Declaration. 
(Since the Declaration is written as coming from “religious leaders,” people who don’t consider themselves “religious leaders” can sign as “Supporters of the North Carolina Religious Coalition for Marriage Equality.”) 
Please note that the Declaration addresses only civil marriage; it says nothing about religious beliefs or practices regarding marriage. 
If you have any questions please feel free to call me (after Sat. the 26th, when I will return from a trip). 
Sign-up lists will be available at the services on Feb. 27 and March 6, or you can email me. 
I will email names and email addresses (or postal addresses) of signers to NCRC4ME in time for their “lobby day” in Raleigh on March 15. 
Thank you for your consideration of this issue. 
For the Church of the Holy Spirit Vestry, 
Dudley Cate 828-296-8466 jodud...@aol.com 
--------------------------- 
North Carolina Religious Coalition for Marriage Equality Declaration of Religious Leaders April 19, 2004 
The most fundamental human right, after the necessities of food, clothing and shelter, is the right to affection and the supportive love of other human beings. 
We become most fully human when we love another person. 
We can grow in our capacity to be human - to be loving - in a family unit. 
This right to love and form a family is so fundamental that our United States Constitution takes it for granted in its dedication to "secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.” 
The North Carolina Constitution likewise affirms the “inalienable rights” of human beings to "life, liberty, the enjoyment of the fruits of their own labor, and the pursuit of happiness." 
Throughout history, tyrants have known that by denying the right of oppressed peoples to form and nurture families, they can kill the spirit of those peoples. 
>From the shameful history of slavery in America, the injustice of forbidding people to marry is evident as a denial of a basic human right. 
The American laws forbidding interracial marriage, now struck down, were clearly discriminatory. 
Denial of the status of marriage to those who would freely accept its responsibilities creates legal and economic inequities and social injustice. 
We feel called to protest and oppose this injustice. 
As religious people, clergy and lay leaders, we are mandated by faith to stand for justice in our common civic life. 
We oppose the use of sacred texts and religious traditions to deny legal equity to same-gender couples. 
As concerned citizens we affirm the liberty of adults of the same gender to love and marry. 
We insist that no one, especially the state, is allowed to coerce people into marriage or bar two consenting adults, whether of the same or differing genders, from forming the family unit that lets them be more fully loving, thus more fully human. 
We respect the fact that debate and discussion continue in many of our religious communities as to the scriptural, theological and liturgical issues involved. 
However, we draw on our many faith traditions to arrive at a common conviction. 
We are resolved that the State should not interfere with same-gender couples who choose to marry and share fully and equally in the rights, responsibilities, and commitments of civil marriage. 
We affirm freedom of conscience in this matter. 
We recognize that the state may not require religious groups to officiate at, or bless, same-gender marriages. 
Likewise, a denial of state civil recognition dishonors the religious convictions of those communities and clergy who officiate at, and bless, same-gender marriages. 
The state may not favor the convictions of one religious group over another by denying individuals their fundamental right to marry and to have those marriages recognized by civil law. 
As faith leaders, we commit ourselves to public action, visibility, education, and mutual support in the service of the right and freedom to marry. 
-- 
Tom Dempsey Gulf Breeze, FL 850-748-0740 
Email: Bill McGinnis <bmc...@patriot.net> 
The One Reason Why All Americans Should Oppose The Nomination Of Samuel Alito 
He Would Tear Down Our System Of Checks And Balances, Giving Far Too Much Power To The President 
My Fellow Americans: 
As many of you may have heard, President Bush has nominated a long-time Federal Judge named Samuel Alito to become the next member of the United States Supreme Court, to fill a vacancy created by the retirement of another member of the Court. 
Under our Constitution, this nomination cannot take effect unless and until the United States Senate gives its Consent, as described in our Constitution, Article II, Section 2. 
A copy of the Constitution, with links back to the official source, is located at http://loveallpeople.org/usconstitutiona.txt 
Judge Samuel Alito is very highly qualified by all of the normal standards used to evaluate candidates for this position: 
He has a very high intellect. 
He graduated very high in his class, from Princeton undergraduate and from Law School at Yale. 
He has a long and distinguished record, including many years as a Federal Appeals Judge, the next level below Supreme Court. 
He has encyclopedic knowledge of hundreds of different Supreme Court cases, and he can recite details from memory. 
He demonstrates an excellent "Judicial Temperament," being courteous, mild-mannered, respectful of all people; careful in his work, meticulous in detail. 
His co-workers love him. 
His fellow judges love him. 
His family loves him. 
President Bush loves him. 
Yes, it is true that some people don't like the way they think he will vote on the Supreme Court. 
But other people do like the way they think he will vote, and the ones who favor him seem to outnumber the ones who oppose him. 
So now the Senate is getting ready to vote soon, on whether to approve him or not; and at this moment (evening of Jan. 27, 2006) it looks like he has more than the fifty-one votes needed for approval. 
The President is very eager to go ahead quickly and get this vote, because he very much wants to have Samuel Alito on the Supreme Court, to be judging the cases Bush is interested in. 
So there is a lot of hurry-up pressure on the Senate to give its prompt vote of approval. 
There is an old saying that applies in this situation: "Act in haste, repent at leisure." 
Sometimes you can make a bad decision very quickly, then regret it for many years to come. 
That is what is about to happen with Judge Samuel Alito, in my opinion, because he has one tragic flaw - a very serious blind spot in his thinking - which makes him completely unacceptable for the position of Supreme Court Justice: He does not really agree with the system of "Checks and Balances" built into the Constitution, and he is ready to start tearing it down in order to follow the "Unitary Executive Theory," which calls for vastly-increased Presidential Power at the expense of Congress and the Supreme Court. 
And because of this tragic flaw . . . 
"He Would Tear Down Our System Of Checks And Balances, Giving Far Too Much Power To The President." 
In our Constitutional system, we have three branches of the Federal Government: the Legislative, Executive, and Judicial branches. 
And the basic idea behind the Checks and Balances we have is that if one branch of the Government goes crazy, the other two can hold it down. 
But Samuel Alito believes in a little-known Constitutional theory - called the "Unitary Executive Theory" - which says that the President should have complete control over the Executive Branch, and that the Executive Branch should be in charge of almost everything that the Government actually does, including the functions of the Independent Agencies which were designed to be free of Presidential control, and the Military, which exists, which is regulated, and which is funded by specific authority given by the Constitution to Congress, not to the President. 
The Military is not part of the Executive Branch: it is a separate entity. 
"Commander In Chief" doesn't mean that he is the boss of the Military, merely that he is the Administrator, just as he is the Administrator of the Executive Branch, charged with "executing faithfully" all the laws passed by Congress and all the Decisions rendered by the Supreme Court. 
Under the Unitary Executive Theory, the Laws of Congress and Decisions of the Supreme Court have no actual authority unless the President agrees with them. 
And so Congress and the Supreme Court become mere advisors to the President, with no real authority over him. 
And the President becomes a Dictator, unrestrained by anything in the Constitution, backed up by the Armed Forces, which would be entirely under his personal control. 
And thus the United States of America - The Land Of The Free And The Home Of The Brave - becomes just another Military Dictatorship, no better than Nazi Germany or Fascist Italy during World War II. 
AND THAT IS WHY ALL AMERICANS SHOULD OPPOSE THE NOMINATION OF SAMUEL ALITO. 
For details and further proof, please see these websites: 
Testimony at http://judiciary.senate.gov/testimony.cfm?id=1725&wit_id=4905 
Descriptions and Links at http://www.UnitaryExecutive.net 
Blessings to you. 
May God help us all. 
And may God bless America! 
Rev. Bill McGinnis, Director http://www.LoveAllPeople.org and http://www.InternetchurchOfChrist.org 
Copies of this message are located below. 
If you want to help, please send them to everyone you know who needs to read them. 
http://www.loveallpeople.org/theonereasonwhy.html and http://www.loveallpeople.org/theonereasonwhy.txt 
### 
CONTACT William McGinnis (Rev. Bill McGinnis) 1908 Mt Vernon Ave #2543 Alexandria, VA 22301 7037686710 bmc...@patriot.net 
Reply 
NASA & Company Diplomacy - Trying to keep Moon Landing Hoax a secret in modern times 
Some strategies being used by NASA & Company in relation to China and other space planning countries are mentioned here after being gleaned from a news item underneath. 
Country has an Independent strategy = NASA & company to use "Numero Uno" strategy, try to assert, beat, mesh and control the space program of the country. 
This can also be through political, economical, social, and technological influence. 
Country not open or not have fixed strategy = NASA & Company to use "freeze thawed" strategy especially when the country has a challenging, growing and ambitious space program. 
This can also be through political, economical, social, and technological influence. 
Dependant = NASA & Company to use "space station" model to unify the aims of different countries. 
This is really an end goal aim of NASA & Company and also does not allow anyone challenging the moon landing hoax. 
The target for NASA & Company probably to get by 2018 all the ambitious space program countries shifting towards this model, through the propaganda of another moon mission; deliberately failing this or trying hard for another moon landing hoax; achieving the real aim of space unity between space programs of other countries. 
China launches its second manned spaceflight mission 
Secretive efforts keep outsiders in the dark about the program's goals 
By MARK CARREAU 
Copyright 2005 Houston Chronicle 
Reuters 
China launched Shenzhou VI, its second manned spacecraft, early today in northwest China's Gansu Province. 
A pair of military pilots embarked on China's second manned space flight early today, hurtling into orbit on a test mission that could span five days. 
The crew of the Shenzhou VI spacecraft was identified as Fei Junlong, 40, and Nie Haishen, 41, by China's official news agency. 
The successful launch from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in northwest China follows the solo flight of Yang Liwei in October 2003. 
His one-day mission vaulted his communist homeland into the elite circle of spacefaring nations - Russia and the United States - that can launch and sustain humans in space. 
Most experts believe China intends to develop a small space station of its own over the next several years. 
But they remain uncertain about whether China aims to beat the United States to the moon in its secretive space effort. 
President Bush has directed NASA to return to the moon by 2018 with a new generation of human explorers. 
China's "is not a fly-by-night program," said Joan Johnson-Freese, an expert on national security who follows space developments in the Asian nation at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I. 
"They are not in any hurry. 
They want a program that will be a success," Johnson-Freese said. 
"They are not going to rush it, because they don't want it to be a budget buster. 
Economics will be a big determiner in the speed of their program." 
China's overtures to join the U.S.-led effort to develop the 16-nation international space station have been thwarted for more than a decade over a range of issues, including the Asian country's human rights policies and worries it could acquire technologies that could pose a security threat. 
The freeze thawed some after Yang's 2003 mission. 
China was among 30 nations invited to send a delegate to NASA-sponsored roundtable discussions on Bush's strategy to reach the moon with astronauts as the first step in the exploration of Mars and other-deep space destinations. 
"We applaud China's space achievements," NASA spokesman Allard Beutel said Tuesday. 
"We wish them a successful return of their astronauts." 
He stressed, however, that NASA would not follow this week's Chinese mission through formal channels. 
At present, there are no plans for additional meetings with foreign powers to discuss the Bush exploration initiative or to extend an invitation to China to join the space station partnership, Beutel said. 
The flight of Fei and Nie could mark the end of the opening chapter in a three-phase Chinese space initiative, Johnson-Freese said. 
The first phase, she said, will demonstrate the capability of a multi-compartment spacecraft that will leave a test module in orbit when the two fliers return to Earth. 
The Chinese program's second phase will include spacewalks on future missions and demonstrations of docking and undocking techniques. 
The final phase will feature the assembly and operation of a longer-duration space lab. 
At least one expert believes China's intentions might include a surprise attempt to circle the moon with astronauts before NASA's planned lunar return. 
"The Americans would be wise to plan accordingly," said John E. Pike, director of the Alexandria, Va.-based GlobalSecurity.org, a small national security think tank. 
"There is always the possibility they could jam us up, make us look like we are not numero uno," Pike said. 
During the U.S. and Russian lunar race during the Cold War, NASA scored an early coup by circling the moon with the Apollo 8 crew over the 1968 Christmas holidays. 
As it turned out, the Soviets never made it to the moon. 
"(China) could be the second country to do that," Pike said. 
"They would get in line in front of the Russians. 
And they would not have to land on the moon to take us down a notch." 
Pike's concern is based on China's development of a new medium-lift rocket, the Long March V, and the construction of a new space launch complex on Hainan Island in the South China Sea. 
The two developments, he said, could eventually enable China's space program to mature to the point that experts could assemble and launch from Earth's orbit a spacecraft capable of circling the moon with astronauts and returning home. 
mark.carr...@chron.com 
Email: "righter"<righ...@sonic.net> 
Groups: alt.animals.rights.promotion, alt.animals, alt.animals.cat, alt.animals.ethics.vegetarian, alt.animals.lion, alt.animals.tiger, alt.animals.felines.diseases, alt.animals.dog, alt.animals.horses.breeding, alt.animals.felines.snowleopards 
I'm a member of a local animal rights news, and get regular emails from other members and the staff. 
Recently, I read an email that reported the horrific nightmare Civet Cats go through by sick losers who put them in sheds and heat the inside of the sheds up to 110 degrees with fires, so that they can periodically scrape the sweat off of their genitals and sell it to corrupt corporations who use it to prolong the scent of perfumes. 
The animals eventually die, which is because these demons are so GREEDY, they want as much of their "product" as they can get, instead of letting the cats go after a point, as an act of humanity, mercy, love. 
Below I pasted the email text, and it has a link to a website that automatically plays this song the author of the email created. 
It has cat's "Meowing" for the vocals, and you might really find yourself in those furnaces, feeling and thinking those terrible feelings and thoughts that these cats do before they die. 
Right now, while we're sitting at our computers enjoying the internet, those innocent, beautiful, loving cats, are dying, somewhere in this troubled world a slow, agonizing death. 
The main reason I wrote this post is to ask anyone reading this if they know of some way I can help put a stop to this Cat Holocaust. 
I am serious about doing something. 
If I love cats so much, why aren't I DOING something??? 
I don't want to appear before God on judgment day and have to explain why I didn't do anything like this in my life. 
Any suggestions would be appreciated. 
Here's the text of the email: 
Hi there, 
I read the Civet Cat story from a little while ago, and tonight, when my Mom emailed me about it, I re-read it, and went to the website with the song the author of the email created. 
Well, sure enough, when I heard the cats "Meowing," I imagined the hellish moments these poor beautiful creatures of God were living, what went on in their tiny, sweet little minds, and decided that I want to do something about this torture. 
So, if anyone can give me some advice, I'd sure appreciate it! 
I think for starters, myself and those of you who believe in God could say a special prayer for them. 
I will. 
I've pasted the email for those who haven't seen or would like to re-read it. 
It's also got the website where the song has been uploaded. 
I was thinking, that while I'm sitting here, relaxing and enjoying myself, those poor innocent animals are being cooked to death with heat in those Holocaust-esque death chambers. 
And what am I DOING about it? 
From: Travis Job <t...@sonic.net> 
Date: Thu, 11 Mar 2004 02:39:27 -0800 
To: SPAR <s...@sonic.net> 
Subject: Civet Cats, James Rachels + a song 
This is my first time posting to the list, so I feel somewhat embarrassed by "promoting" a song I wrote, but I think it is fitting because it is directly tied to extreme animal suffering as a result of human lack of empathy, but an abundance of human greed. 
I'm not sure if any of you know much about civet cats, but to brief those who might not know, I will quote James Rachels, author of World Hunger and Moral Obligation among many other animal rights-related books and articles. 
(I kind of see him to be for animal rights theory as Peter Singer is to the theory of utilitarianism applied to non-human animals). 
The quote is from an article entitled "Vegetarianism and `The Other Weight Problem'" 
If anyone wants the complete article, email me, as it is a very good article which no meat-eater can read and not sense their own hypocrisy. 
But this is what he says about civet cats: 
"As an example, consider the treatment of the civet cat, a highly intelligent and sociable animal. 
Civet cats are trapped and placed in small cages inside darkened sheds, where the temperature is kept up to 110 F by fires. 
They are confined in this way until they finally die. 
What justifies this extraordinary mistreatment? 
These animals have the misfortune to produce a substance that is useful in the manufacture of perfume. 
Musk, which is scraped from their genitals once a day for as long as they can surv ive, makes the scent of perfume last a bit longer after each application. 
(The heat increases their "production" of musk.) 
Here Kant's rule--"Animals are merely means to an end; that end is man"--is applied with a vengeance. 
To promote one of the most trivial interests we have, thousands of animals are tormented for their whole lives." 
This article, and specifically this piece, effected me enough to try to build a song around the topic. 
If anyone is interested in listening to this song, and in offering their opinion, whether it be positive or negative, I'd appreciate it. 
But I also hope no one feels any obligation to download, especially if you have an internet connection as slow mine (28k). 
The url for the song is http://www.sonic.net/~fsjob/TragiCore-TheCivetCat.mp3 
Although there are no human vocals/lyrics, I think it's subject matter is audible. 
Again, if anyone wants to read Rachels' entire article, let me know. 
It's also on the net. 
I was already a vegetarian when I read it a little more than a year ago, but it was one of the bigger factors for me in going completely vegan. 
I hope all are well. 
Farewell for now... 
Travis Job 
icq uin: 5249025 
"Note to Wigner: Do you think your friend could feed my cat? 
Heisenberg wasn't sure. 
Thanks, 
--Shrodinger" 
------------------- 
.: GO VEGAN :. 
MAKE THOUSANDS!!! -- 
THIS IS NOT A SCAM!!! 
I found this on a bulletin board and decided to try it: I don't care about the useless pre-fabricated crap this message usually says. 
All I say is, it works. 
Continue pre-fab crap. 
WELL GUESS WHAT!!! 
Within seven days, I started getting money in the mail!! 
I was shocked!! 
I figured it would end soon, but the money just kept coming in. 
In my first week, I made about $25.00. 
By the end of the second week I had made a total of more than $1000.00!! 
In the third week I had more than $10,000.00 and it's still growing!! 
This is now my fourth week and I have made a total of $42,000.00 and it's still coming rapidly. 
It's certainly worth $6.00 and six stamps, and I have spent more than that on the lottery without ever winning!!! 
Let me tell you how this works and most important, why it works.......... 
also make sure you print this out NOW, so you can get the information off of it, as you will need it. 
I promise you that if you follow the directions exactly that you will start making more money than you thought possible by doing something so easy!! 
Suggestion: Read this entire message carefully!! 
(Print it out or download it) 
Follow the simple directions and watch the money come in!! 
It's easy. 
It's legal. 
And, your investment is only $6.00 (Plus postage) !!! 
IMPORTANT: 
This is not a rip-off, it is decent; it's legal; and it is virtually no risk - it really works!! 
If all the following instructions are adhered to, you will receive extraordinary dividends. 
PLEASE NOTE: 
Please follow the directions EXACTLY, and $50,000 or more can be yours in 20 to 60 days. 
This program remains successful because of the honesty and integrity of the participants. 
Please continue its success by carefully adhering to the instructions. 
You will now become apart of the Mail Order business. 
You are in the business of developing Mailing Lists. 
Many large corporations are happy to pay big bucks for quality lists. 
However, the money made from the mailing lists is secondary to income which is made from people like you and me asking to be included in that list. 
Here are the four easy steps to success. 
STEP ONE: 
Get six separate pieces of paper and write the following on each piece of paper "PLEASE PUT ME ON YOUR MAILING LIST." 
Now get 6 U.S. $1.00 bills and place ONE inside of EACH of the six pieces of paper so the bill will not be seen through the envelope (to prevent thievery). 
Next, place one paper in each of the six envelopes and seal them. 
You now should have six sealed envelopes, each with a piece of paper stating the above phrase, your name and address, and a $1.00 bill. 
What you are doing is creating a service. 
THIS IS ABSOLUTELY LEGAL!!!!! 
You are requesting a legitimate service and you are paying for it!! 
Like most of us I was a little skeptical and little worried about the legal aspects of it all. 
So I checked it out with the U.S. Post Office (1-800-238-5355) and they confirmed that it is indeed legal!! 
Mail the six envelopes to the following addresses: 
1) G. Burrows 1/264 Tor St Toowoomba QLD 4350 Australia 
2)S Luest P.O. Box 366 Garden Grove, CA 92842 USA 
3) G.V. & A. Bourret 41 Broome St, #1 Brooklyn, NY 11222 USA 
4)R. Ansems Gen. Foulkesstraat 5 4641 BW Ossendrecht Netherlands 
5)W. Brumbley 4632 Hilton Ave Suite # 31 Columbus, Ohio 43228 
STEP TWO:Now take the #1 name off the list that you see above, move the other names up (six becomes 5, 5 becomes 4, and etc.) and add YOUR NAME as number 6 on the list. 
STEP THREE: 
Change anything you need to but try to keep this article as close to original as possible. 
Now post your amended article to at least 200 news groups. : 
(I think there are close to 24,000 groups) 
All you need is 200, but remember, the more you post, the more money you make!! 
This is perfectly legal!! 
If you have any doubts, refer to Title 18 Sec. 1302 & 1341 of the Postal Lottery laws. 
Keep a copy of these steps for yourself and whenever you need money, you can use it again, and again. 
PLEASE REMEMBER that this program remains successful because of the honesty and integrity of the participants and by their carefully adhering to directions. 
Look at it this way. 
If you were of integrity, the program will continue and the money that so many others have received will come your way. 
NOTE: You may want to retain every name and address sent to you, either on a computer or hard copy and keep the notes people send you. 
This VERIFIES that you are truly providing a service. 
(Also, it might be a good idea to wrap the $1 bill in dark paper to reduce the risk of mail theft). 
So, as each post is downloaded and the directions carefully followed, all members will be reimbursed for their participation as a List Developer with one dollar each. 
Your name will move up the list geometrically so that when your name reaches the #1 position you will be receiving thousands of dollars in CASH!!! 
What an opportunity for only $6.00 ( $1.00 for each of the first six people listed above) 
Send it now, add your own name to the list and you're in business!!! 
*****DIRECTIONS FOR HOW TO POST TO NEWS GROUPS!!!***** 
STEP ONE: You do not need to re-type this entire letter to do your own posting. 
Simply put your cursor at the beginning of this letter and drag your cursor to the bottom of this document, and select 'copy' from the edit menu. 
This will copy the entire letter into the computer's memory. 
STEP TWO: 
Open a blank 'notepad' file and place your cursor at the top of the blank page. 
From the 'edit' menu select 'paste'. 
This will paste a copy of the letter into the notepad so that you will add your name to the list. 
STEP THREE: 
Save your new notepad file as a text file. 
If you want to do your posting in different settings, you'll always have this file to go back to. 
STEP FOUR: 
Visit message boards and post this article as a new message by highlighting the text of this letter and selecting paste from the edit menu. 
Fill in the subject, this will be the header that everyone sees as they scroll through the list of postings in a particular group, click the post message button. 
You're done. 
Congratulations!!!!!! 
THAT'S IT!! 
All you have to do, and It Really works!!! 
Best Wishes 
Blue Planet: Who's afraid of Big Bad Wolf? 
By Dan Whipple 
UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL 
Boulder, CO, Feb. 23 (UPI) -- 
Ever since he ate up Red Riding Hood's grandma and blew down the houses of two-thirds of the Three Little Pigs, the Big Bad Wolf has held a persistently bad reputation. 
In part because of that reputation, the gray wolf was nearly exterminated from the lower 48 states by the 1920s, except for a small remnant population on Isle Royale National Park in Michigan's Lake Superior. 
The last wolf was killed in Yellowstone National Park in 1943. 
Western sheep and cattle ranchers, on whose behalf this extermination campaign was conducted, gratefully dusted their hands of the wolf and wrote him off as a job well done. 
Their sheep could graze, their cows could ruminate and never a discouraging word would be heard. 
After the major kill-offs, wolves outside of Alaska and Canada existed mostly as legend. 
Like UFOs or Sasquatch, several people claimed to see fleeting lone wolves, usually in Yellowstone. 
In the 1960s, a group shooting a movie in the Wyoming park reportedly imported some captive wolves, then released them when their shooting was done. 
If so, this happy band has not been heard from since. 
Rumor also had it some renegade biologist brought a caged pair to Yellowstone and released them into the wild sometime in the 1970s, hoping to reestablish a breeding population. 
If true, the caper failed. 
Over time, the wolf's absence seemed to rehabilitate its image. 
Eventually, a trickle of support appeared for bringing the predator back to its former home range in the northern Rocky Mountains. 
This trickle grew into a flood, resulting in 14 wolves being reintroduced in Yellowstone in 1995 by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service -- albeit over the strong and still-continuing objections of ranchers. 
These wolf packs have flourished, and now there are an estimated 850 wolves roaming the northern Rockies, where merely 10 years ago there were none. 
One compelling argument for reintroduction was the wolf acts as a keystone predator, an animal that affects the populations, behavior and ecology of a wide variety of species within its range. 
Some recent research conducted by Oregon State University has given considerable credence to this idea. 
OSU forestry professors William Ripple and Robert Beschta have found that wolves actually promote stream-bank stabilization, although they have given the phenomenon the unfortunate name of "the ecology of fear" -- something that smacks of the horrible PR resulting from the wolf's relationships with Riding Hood and the Three Pigs. 
They explained that elk in Yellowstone used to browse unmolested on young aspen and willow growing near the banks of streams, a behavior that prevented the saplings from reaching mature stages and increased the possibility of soil erosion. 
Since reintroduction, however, Ripple and Beschta have found, fear of the wolves apparently has discouraged the elk from spending too much time at stream banks -- where they are out in the open -- and munching on the saplings. 
"All you have to do is look at the photographs," Ed Bangs, wolf recovery coordinator for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, told UPI's Blue Planet, 
"You say, 'wow!' 
An area that used to be bald as a billiard ball is now a sea of willow." 
This simple change has triggered a veritable ecological cascade in Yellowstone. 
More streamside willow and aspen have meant better habitat for beaver, for instance. 
Where there had been only one beaver colony in the park's northern range before the wolves returned, now there are nine. 
"It may be uninteresting to a lot of people," Beschta told Blue Planet. 
"There's a lot of impact on plants and they say, 'Who cares?' 
But we've been looking at streamside communities. 
Since wolf recovery, streamside plants, willows and cottonwoods provide food for other critters -- beavers, a whole variety of avian species, berry-producing shrubs that bears can use. 
It's important with regard to the quality of streams. 
The plants provide shade and root strength for bank stability. 
Plants are critical to wildland ecosystems." 
Yellowstone has a vast elk herd, one of the largest in the world. 
Bangs said although the number of elk has not declined very much since the wolves came back, their behavior appears markedly different. 
"I'm pretty suspicious of making broad generalizations," however, he cautioned. 
"Wolves are still pretty new. 
They've only been there for 10 years. 
In 10 more years we'll have a better idea." 
Wolf reintroduction in the northern Rockies has been so successful the Fish and Wildlife Service has moved to reduce the animal's status from endangered to threatened and, eventually, to remove it from the endangered species list altogether. 
Bangs said the agency has established viable wolf packs in the northern Rockies, as required by federal regulations. 
Some conservationists want the protection extended so wolves can move into other states, including Colorado, Utah and Oregon, among others. 
On Jan. 31, Oregon Federal District Court Judge Robert E. Jones appeared to agree with them. 
He vacated the FWS decision to downgrade the wolf's status. 
Bangs said his agency is still reviewing the decision. 
Regardless of the wolf's legal status, its future expansion into new areas now seems likely. 
Wolves can migrate considerable distances. 
A Yellowstone wolf was found dead, hit by a car, on a Colorado highway last year, several hundred miles from home. 
Meanwhile, his reputation seems to be improving, although Bangs noted a "pretty interesting social dynamic." 
There are only about 850 wolves in the West, but there are an estimated 31,000 mountain lions. 
Pound for pound, mountain lions eat more game and more livestock than wolves. 
They even occasionally attack people, which wolves do not -- despite the propaganda from the Brothers Grimm. 
Yet people seem willing -- even eager -- to accommodate mountain lions, despite the risks. 
It remains to be seen whether they will extend the same courtesy to the arriving gray wolf. 
Regarding those rumors about wolves living in Yellowstone prior to the official reintroduction? 
They seem to be just that: rumors. 
True, there are about 300,000 wolves and wolf hybrids kept as pets in the United States. 
It also is likely people have released some of these animals into the wild hoping they would survive -- for instance, a ranger in Glacier Park caught someone in this very act not long ago. 
Bangs said these animals are not equipped to survive in the wild, however, and they all almost certainly have died. 
He said after 10 years of DNA testing on northern Rockies wolves, scientists have not found a single strain that did not belong to one of the wolves the agency released -- or their descendants. 
-- 
Blue Planet is a weekly series examining the relationship of humans to the environment, by veteran environmental reporter Dan Whipple. 
E-mail: sciencem...@upi.com 
Climate: Humans fuss, animals adjust 
By Dan Whipple 
UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL 
Boulder, CO, Nov. 15 (UPI) -- 
Scientists can argue all they want about how many degrees Celsius -- or Fahrenheit -- the planet is warming and what the trend portends, but meanwhile Earth's plants, insects and animals are not waiting for the outcome. 
They already are altering their patterns of behavior in response to what is happening. 
It turns out one of the surest barometers of the warming climate is the response of the non-human natural world to changing conditions, and biologists who study the responses have been aware for some years the biosphere is acknowledging global warming. 
Nina Leopold Bradley, a plant ecologist and daughter of the conservation pioneer Aldo Leopold, published a 1999 paper in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences on her 61-year uninterrupted phenological records. 
Phenology studies an organism's development and life cycle -- the pulse of life. 
Bradley's record of 300 phenophases found that even prior to 1999, spring was arriving in higher latitudes several weeks earlier than in the earlier years of her data. 
Birds arrived sooner on their migrations from the south and plants flowered earlier. 
The Eastern phoebe is showing up about 20 days before it used to. 
The forest phlox is blooming in late April instead of mid-May. 
Half of the 300 phenophases Leopold tracked showed a response consistent with warming. 
In England, the cuckoo returns earlier. 
An analysis of 65 bird species in the United Kingdom shows about one-third are laying their eggs four to seven days earlier than they did 25 years ago. 
"One of the major, most well-documented and robust findings in ecology over the past century has been the crucial role of climate in determining the geographical distribution of species and ecological communities," concluded a report titled "Observed Impacts of Global Climate Change in the United States," released by the Pew Center on Global Climate last week. 
Pew researchers looked at about 40 studies that could provide an assessment of whether climate was affecting biology. 
"Half of the studies provide strong evidence of a causal link between the biological change and climate change," said Camille Parmesan, a University of Texas-Austin biologist and one of the world's leading experts on this issue. 
These changes are occurring across all species, Parmesan told UPI's Climate. 
"Across the United States, the northern edge of species' range is expanding," she said. 
Parmesan has spent much of her career studying the checkerspot butterfly, which migrates between Mexico and southern California. 
Some localized extinctions already have occurred across some of its habitat. 
"Empirical research pointed to climate as being a strong driver," she said. 
"There have been large numbers of population extinctions in Mexico and southern California in areas where the habitat is still acceptable." 
According to Parmesan's earlier studies, one extinction event, for instance, was triggered when a checkerspot population migrated north prematurely, relying on a warming temperature signal, then was caught in a severe snowstorm in its northern habitat. 
Throughout the United States, she said, "spring is about two weeks earlier. 
Tree swallows are nesting nine days earlier. 
Tropical species have moved up to Florida and the Gulf Coast. 
Bird and butterfly watchers are seeing many, many new species coming up from Mexico and the Caribbean." 
As the Pew report concluded, "Sufficient studies now exist to conclude that the consequences of climate change are already detectable within U.S. ecosystems." 
Such consequences include shifting and, in some cases, contraction of ranges and changes in species composition within ecosystems. 
The report also found alterations of ecosystem processes such as carbon cycling and storage. 
The Alaskan tundra, for instance, has switched from being a net sink of carbon dioxide -- absorbing and storing more carbon from the atmosphere than it releases -- to "being a net source of CO2 (releasing more carbon than is stored) because warmer winters have allowed dead plant matter previously stored in the soil to decompose and release CO2." 
The Pew report coincided with the release in Iceland of the "Arctic Climate Impact Assessment." 
The ACIA -- with participation by the United States, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, the Russian Federation and Sweden -- was begun in 2000. 
"The impacts of global warming are affecting people now in the Arctic," said ACIA chair Robert Corell. 
"The Arctic is experiencing some of the most rapid and severe climate change on Earth. 
The impacts of climate change on the region and the globe are projected to increase substantially in the years to come." 
The ACIA found Arctic winter temperatures have increased 4 degrees to 7 degrees Fahrenheit in the last 50 years and should go up about twice that much in the next 100 years. 
Arctic summer sea ice will decline by 50 percent by the end of the 21st century, the assessment found, with some models predicting complete disappearance of summer sea ice. 
"Should the Arctic Ocean become ice-free in summer, it is likely that polar bears and some seal species would be driven toward extinction," the report concluded. 
As with so much climate research, not everyone agrees with these dire predictions. 
A third report, "The Impacts of Climate Change: An Appraisal for the Future," completed by the Britain-based International Policy Network and released almost simultaneously with the other two, falls somewhat into that category. 
On the one hand, the IPN report agreed "Climate models generally predict that the temperature rises in the Arctic will substantially exceed the global rise. 
This applies especially in the high Arctic where the ice cover is expected to diminish substantially with the effect that the surface absorption of solar radiation will greatly increase." 
On the other hand, the report thinks the news might not be so bad for the North Atlantic fisheries. 
"The impact of global warming on fish stocks and fisheries is hard to judge," the IPN report said. 
"A warming of the magnitude predicted is more likely than not to be beneficial to the fisheries of the North Atlantic." 
The important commercial species that probably would benefit from warming include cod, haddock, saithe, herring, blue whiting and several types of flatfish and crustaceans -- such as the Norway lobster. 
Important species that probably would decline include shrimp, capelin, Greenland halibut and some varieties of flatfish. 
Hidden in this laundry list -- and in the pile of studies examined by the Pew researchers -- is one of the fundamental chasms dividing participants in the global warming debate. 
The IPN report examines commercial fish species, but it neglects important non-commercial animals, such as seals and polar bears. 
In a limited economic sense, therefore, the organization can argue warming might be a good thing. 
The problem is whether one cares what happens to the polar bears, checkerspot butterflies and other unconsumables. 
The Pew researchers tried to transcend the economic argument. 
They assumed a value -- unspecified -- for non-commercial species, and in doing so rendered the warming news a bit less rosy. 
This tug-of-war over calculating economic values is the one that ultimately will have to be decided by humans, because animals and plants can adjust only so much. 
"When dandelions have set the mark of May on Wisconsin pastures, it is time to listen for the final proof of spring," wrote Aldo Leopold in "A Sand County Almanac." 
"Sit down on a tussock, cock your ears at the sky, dial out the bedlam of meadowlarks and redwings, and soon you may hear it: the flight of the upland plover, just now back from the Argentine." 
Or maybe not. 
-- 
Climate is a weekly series by UPI examining the impacts of global climate change. 
E-mail sciencem...@upi.com 
Preamble from BBC leading to the comments further below. 
Feel free to cut and paste and leave your comments, as these viewpoints cover the entire gamut surrounding the event. 
---->===}*{===<---- 
How has Katrina changed the US? 
What will be the lasting effects of Hurricane Katrina and what can be learnt from the response? 
Relief agencies are trying to help hundreds of thousands of displaced people while authorities have vowed to restore security in New Orleans following a breakdown of law and order. 
In the world press, commentators predict that Katrina will make a profound change in the way the US is perceived at home and abroad, especially following the scenes of poverty and racial divisions they believe the disaster has revealed. 
Meanwhile, President George W Bush has said he will lead an inquiry into how the disaster was handled. 
How has Katrina changed the US? 
Has it altered your life? 
Has the disaster affected the way other countries view the US? 
Send us your comments using the form. 
---->===}*{===<---- 
Some of the better comments: 
"As an American, I would like to take this opportunity to tell all the 'USA and Bush Bashers' that I am appalled at the number of 'allies' that are using this disaster as their podium to spread their useless opinions. 
What you see in New Orleans is a perfect example of the downfalls of the welfare system, a form of socialism that many in this country know is the true problem. 
You have seen the pictures. 
You people think it is race, but it is not. 
It is the welfare society that was New Orleans." 
--Paul, Atlanta, USA 
"I am frankly revolted by the response of the Bush-Bashers; "Sorry chaps, but you did have it coming..." 
The plain fact is that Bush has a sight more in the way of common humanity than a great many of his detractors. 
At least he isn't using this disaster for cheap political point-scoring." 
--Mac, Nottingham 
"I do not feel it has changed the US citizens which is what was needed, even now the majority want "Gas" despite the fact they are polluting the world more than any other country in the world and refuse to stop, perhaps this natural disaster, which let's face it looks like a product of Global Warming, will change their views, why not pick things up with your hands and walk with your legs, other people in the world do it, "Gas" is not the be all and end all!" 
--David, Kent 
<This man has clearly never visited the US. 
Distances are not what they are in the old world. 
Here, cars are absolutely necessary, and he'd have to have one, too. 
-Juggernaut> 
"The US will work its way through the loss of a city and we are making progress after seven short days. 
Thank you for your concern, but Europe is still irrelevant." 
--John B, Windermere, Florida 
<John can come over to eat at my house anytime. 
-Juggernaut> 
It is always interesting what spin the press will take. 
Certainly, representation of the US in other countries will have a certain depiction. 
I don't believe that folks who believe that America is the land of opportunity will change their views from this recent news. 
I have a friend who came here from Bulgaria after winning a green card in a lottery. 
Yes, she and her family were delighted to leave the communistic remnants in that country. 
Her husband became a citizen of the US just the week before last. 
(Believe it or not, it takes a minimum of 5 years to apply.) 
The countries which are giving to America to aid are a great example of the seed that America has sown through the years with other nations. 
Now to the poverty stricken and the racial issue... 
You know, I've lived in the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex most of my life. 
When not in Texas, I lived in LA and San Francisco. 
There is a lot of racial diversity in all of these places... and I've vacationed through the south... visited my folks when they lived in Mississippi, and where they live now and are in the racial minority being white (less than 20%) in northeastern Arkansas. 
The fact is, when I began traveling for business to New England, when I first visited my in-laws in Montana and Idaho, I was shocked at the lack of racial diversity. 
I didn't expect to react that way, but when I was looking around my workplace in Nashua, New Hampshire, and everyone else looked pretty much like me, it was really very eerie. 
So, yes, America has pockets that are more diverse than others. 
Additionally, reviewing the standings of Louisiana and Mississippi in the educational stakes, you'll find they usually land near the bottom of a list of 50 states. 
Unfortunately, those left behind to be filmed, where those without transportation or means. 
Some refused to leave, but so many were unable to. 
Yes, it's a valid reflection of America - we do have cities like this. 
However, New Orleans also had many affluent people, people who left town early as they had the means. 
I don't know if this will change other nation's perceptions of America. 
I suspect it will not change greatly... but you never know how much stock people put in the news. 
I do know that this will change the face of America. 
I expect that many of the displaced people (those affluent and those not) will remain in the places they were evacuated to. 
The 1.25 million people who have been housed in stadiums and convention centers across Texas will begin to populate Houston, Dallas, San Antonio and Galveston, and the surrounding areas. 
Sure, some will return, but I have a feeling that once many begin to get jobs and temporary housing, they may be shy about returning. 
I'm interested in what America will look like in 5 years. 
Will racial diversity find its way to Wyoming as some people are offered jobs there? 
Or will the nearly year-round snow be too much for those who have never experienced snow in their lives? 
Will the housing market in Dallas begin booming like the rest of the nation has due to the influx of buyers? 
Will businesses that were new in 2005 have become a household name due to their efforts in rebuilding the gulf coast? 
What will the federal government do to prevent inflation in the housing and building market? 
These are some of the things I've been wondering... 
Linna 
Response coming soon. 
Your reply is good and deserves something good in return. 
Juggernaut 
Okay, I'm new to this forum and really don't like Bush, so my view point is slanted and I admit that. 
I rarely listen to the news or to what politicians or lawyers say because so many tell lies that none have credibility so what's the point? 
What I know is that I have a close friend who's aunt disappeared in New Orleans. 
My friend didn't have computer capability, so I spent the day searching and posting online. 
The family here (California) wanted to fly any family members from there to CA, so they could remain here until things got straightened out down there. 
The cousins could not be found because no one was sure of their married names. 
The hope was that anyone looking for the Aunt would see the family post and know that help was available. 
It is Oct. 6, and not one family member has been located. 
What I saw was dozens of school buses submerged that could have been used to evacuate people who had no transportation. 
What I heard was the Mayor of New Orleans, saying that he didn't order the buses or anything else to be used because he was waiting on someone else to tell him what to do. 
When common sense takes a back seat to politics and legal mumbo jumbo what have we become? 
Recently, Bush addressed the nation. 
About 30 seconds into his address, he started flogging the terrorist issue just one more time. 
Ironically he almost burst out laughing and it was all he could do to keep his mirth down to a barely controlled smirk. 
Even he can't believe that he is trotting out this old saw again. 
I guess if you have a schtick that is a resounding success once, you can't help but trot it out every time your act is going sour. 
Meanwhile, every pocket that can be lined is golden and the poor are shunted off radar yet again. 
The gall of it all is that Bush is stumping for more money to build more refineries, when what he should do is pour money into making the US independent of OPEC or crude oil all together. 
We have the technology; if you are going to spend billions of dollars touting "FREEDOM" why not spend those billions making all of us free? 
Free of polution, free of oil dependency, and free of big business that is bleeding us dry for the short term good (theirs). 
I'm sorry he makes me want to puke so I shut him off. 
In the meanwhile there are still broken families that should have been safe in the home of the brave. 
For those who believe.................... 
Aries in 2005 - Flexibility 
If you want a motto for 2005, the best one to adopt would be "go with the flow." 
2005 will be a year of ups and downs, and only the flexible will be able to keep from going crazy! 
All Aries natives may have to tighten their belts and curb their desire for constant expansion. 
You may need to play it cool and curb your spending. 
You'll be among the first to seize upon new societal trends to create new opportunities for yourself, as your creativity will be at an all-time high. 
You will be more eloquent and persuasive than usual, and others will identify enthusiastically with your vision. 
If you want to start a new creative project or business venture, your imagination will be working overtime. 
2005 could find you doing well career-wise - and aspiring to climb even higher. 
Taurus in 2005 - Tenacity 
"Diligence" is the key word for you, Taurus. 
With hard work and focus, you will attain at least one important aspiration that has been on your agenda for a long time. 
This is the year you'll want to take stock of your career and ask yourself if you're doing the work you want to do for the rest of your life. 
As the year progresses, the more impressive your ideas and works become. 
As a result, your finances improve - and your newfound confidence could attract new love into your life. 
By the end of the year, you will have a whole new network of friends and group activity, stimulating new ideas and taking up your social life a notch or two. 
Gemini in 2005 - Success 
Your cycle of learning through the school of hard knocks has come to an end, Gemini, and now you're going to start reaping the rewards these "lessons" have left in their wake. 
As 2005 progresses, the road ahead will become clearer. 
You now have it in you to create the kind of life for yourself that you want. 
These leaps and bounds forward include love and creativity. 
Your learning of concepts of all kinds combines with extensive group activity, bringing your mind into a whole new space this year. 
By the end of 2005 you'll have a whole new start with regard to your career and your earning potential - and a possible new partnership to top it off! 
Cancer in 2005 - Balance 
Finding a balance between your personal and professional lives may be one of the year's strongest challenges. 
For the most part, your outward life this year will go in fits and starts - alternating periods of intense activity with times of welcome rest. 
Enjoy the restful periods when you can. 
The active ones will be hectic! 
You'll be making radical changes in your work habits, but you'll be a lot happier for it, and in the end you'll know it was worth it. 
Your love life is full, and any dissatisfaction with career and money matters fades into the background. 
By the end of 2005, you'll feel more confident, more determined, and far more capable of making the mountains come to you! 
Leo in 2005 - Abundance 
Pursuing a successful career, along with the usual social and financial advantages, will be easier this year than it has in a long time for you, Leo! 
The most difficult thing might be deciding which path means the most to you, and where to put your focus. 
You'll be able to create opportunities for advancement almost out of thin air. 
Romance in 2005 will make it a year to remember - and you'll be the envy of all your friends. 
Love comes willingly and easily. 
Money may suddenly become tight at a very inconvenient time. 
Yet, this is no comparison to the advancements you'll make overall, and by the end of 2005, you'll look back in sheer wonder and happiness. 
Virgo in 2005 - Perseverance 
Your working life might not go so smoothly this year, Virgo. 
For much of 2005, you'll be putting your nose to the grindstone. 
On the bright side, your finances will be pretty stable. 
Just don't take it for granted - you still need to be cautious this year. 
Your love life will thrive for most of the year, and any relationship begun or reaffirmed in 2005 is very likely to be a lasting one. 
And, you're going to develop a hopeless romantic streak.
In spite of a lot of worry over your career, by the year's end, you'll see that 2005 has filled your life with prosperity and accomplishments. 
Libra in 2005 - Expansion 
Flex your muscles, friend Libra, and prepare for a relatively easy ride. 
With beneficent Jupiter in your sign, this is definitely your year, especially where your social life is concerned. 
Happiness and enjoyment lie ahead. 
If you're not presently married, and want to be, you just might wed by the end of the year. 
This is the year you're going to be doing a lot of travel and learning about your world, as expansion is the theme. 
The one department of life that may not quite be as hopeful as you'd like could be your career, where advancement may be slow and satisfaction rare. 
By year's end, you may find yourself seriously considering a major change - all for the best. 
Scorpio in 2005 - Transmutation 
Scorpio, you can still expect changes - perhaps major ones - in your life this year, almost to the point of total transformation. 
While this is most apparent in the area of your career, you'll see it showing up in other important aspects of your life. 
Your life might take on an entirely new direction you've never dreamed of. 
You may also change your residence during the year. 
Whether you start the year as a single person looking for a partner, or you've been married for many years, happiness in love does lie ahead. 
Be prepared for new horizons. 
They may not be familiar, but they will be fascinating. 
Don't cling to the banks; instead, flow with the tide in 2005. 
Sagittarius in 2005 - Empowerment 
Are you prepared to handle absolute power? 
If not, you will be soon! 
Your ruling planet, Jupiter, will be in a special relationship with Pluto - called "mutual reception" - in 2005. 
There's so much punch packed into this combination that it's almost scary. 
You'll find the ultimate power is the ability to choose your own destiny. 
You'll find practical ways of increasing your effectiveness in the world by gaining new skills that allow you to live more abundantly. 
By the second half of the year, you will finally feel welcome relief from the tight financial binds that have hindered you over the past two years. 
And, a relationship you begin now will last a very long time - like, for the rest of your life. 
Overall, 2005 is sure to be a year you won't forget. 
Capricorn in 2005 - Resolution 
You've got plenty of lucky breaks headed your way in 2005, friend Capricorn. 
The long awaited relief you've needed in your love life is around the corner, and by the end of the year you will feel much clearer about your partnerships in general. 
Financially, it could be a lean year, although some advance planning can help you weather the storm. 
Your career opportunities will expand exponentially, and you're likely to change jobs or positions this year. 
At times, the pressure on your job and home life may seem unbearable, but rest assured you will come through this stronger - and wiser - than ever, as more is revealed and resolved in 2005. 
Aquarius in 2005 - Magic 
2005 sees you expanding your intuitive and psychic skills even more, Aquarius. 
The mysteries of the universe continue to attract and intrigue you, as you apply your mystical awareness to the important decisions upcoming in your life, especially concerning partnerships of all kinds. 
2005 is bound to bring at least one major success in the love department, and your career will be brimming with new enthusiasm and innovation. 
Not only that, but travel, adventure, and personal expansion infuse fresh energy into all areas of your life. 
By year's end, your creative decision-making will have carried you to whole new peaks - and a whole new view from above. 
Pisces in 2005 - Self-confidence 
It's a big year for you, friend Pisces. 
No doubt, in 2005 you'll find yourself pushed more and more out into the world. 
You'll experience a new sense of purpose and make plenty of new friends. 
Expect lots of surprises and lucky breaks this year, with Uranus bringing the unexpected in your career, your love life, and the world in general. 
At some point during the year, you could pick up a financial windfall, hear of a great career opportunity, or unexpectedly meet the love of your life. 
It's important that you take retreats and plenty of time for yourself to regenerate, as the rate of change in your personal and professional life will be fast and unpredictable. 
Remain calm and confident, and love is very likely to flourish in 2005. 
"Expect the unexpected," and enjoy the ride! 
"Success comes before work" only in the dictionary 
Mayur ? <> 
Get Mails Everyday <> 
Share Your Mails <mailto:mayur...@yahoo.com> mayur...@yahoo.com 
SMS Me... 09819602175 
Talk to me <ymsgr:sendIM?mayursha&__Hi+Mayur...> 
[send offline as well ] 
online?u=mayursha&m=g&t=1 
1K Download 
------------------------------------------------------------- 
The mysterious RAPHAEL Holinshed was named for the mysterious Neoplatonic Italian painter RAPHAEL Sanzio who painted _St.George Fighting the Dragon_ (1504-06) 
[ ] 
---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Like William Shakspere RAPHAEL (the painter) died on his April birthday Laura & Bridget's day: 
----------------------------------------------------------------------- 
ARCHILOCHUS solar eclipse: April 6, 648 BC Friday 
Koran descends to Earth: April 6, 610 AD Monday 
CLEMENT's St.Methodius dies: April 6, 884 Monday 
Petrarch meets LAURA: April 6, 1327 Monday 
DURER dies: April 6, 1528 Monday 
BRIDGET Vere's birth: April 6, 1584 Monday 
Sir Francis Walsingham dies: April 6, 1590 Monday 
"native of Crete" EL GRECO dies: April 7, 1614 Monday 
{LUCIO: Does BRIDGET PAINT still, Pompey, ha? 
[MfM Act 3, Sc. 2]} 
LAURA dies of plague: April 6, 1348 Sunday 
RAPHAEL born: April 6, 1483 Sunday 
RAPHAEL dies: April 6, 1520 Good Friday 
Thomas Hobbes' birth: April 5, 1588 Good Friday 
Start of _The SOUND & the FURY_: April 6, 1928 Good Friday 
Kent EARTHQUAKE: April 6, 1580 Wednesday 
Historian John Stow dies: April 6, 1605 Sat/Wed. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<< Upon the sixth of April, Alexander the Great was born. 
Upon the same day he conquered Darius, won a great victory at sea, & died the same day. 
Neither was this day less fortunate to his father Philip; for on the same day he took Potidea; >> - JOHN AUBREY, F.R.S. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------- 
ANTONIO PEREZ 1535-1611 [Philip II's renegade Secretary of State] 
<<In "Love's Labour's Lost" we find a character Don Adriana de Armatho, full of affection and bombast. 
A Spanish refugee, ANTONIO PEREZ, visited England in 1593 and became acquainted with Francis & ANTHONY Bacon, with whom for a time he seems to have been on terms of intimacy, which did not last very long, for the Spaniard developed so much affectation & bombast that he became unpopular in Court circles. 
In 1594 PEREZ wrote & published a book under the assumed name of "RAPHAEL PEREGRINO." 
In the play Holofernes is ridiculing Don Adriana "the traveler from Spain" and says of him: "He is too picked, too spruce, too affected, Too odd, as it were, too PEREGRINate, as I may call it." 
-Act 5, Scene 1. 
To make the reference more pointed and unmistakable, Sir Nathaniel replies "a most singular & choice epithet," and at once enters it in his note book. 
This parody on PEREZ' sobriquet clearly identifies PEREZ with Armatho.>> 
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
Shakespeare Electronic Conference, Vol. 6, No. 0832. Monday, 23 October 1995. 
From: Martin Green <MGr...@usa.pipeline.com> 
Date: Sunday, 22 Oct 1995 10:57:32 -0400 
Subject: Re: Facts, Purpose of List, Italy, Jews 
<<There were no Jews in England to speak of in the 1590's. 
True, but two in England that we know of were a part of the Essex entourage: Dr. Lopez, who had been physician to Essex' step-father, the Earl of Leicester, had apparently treated the young Essex for some socially unacceptable ailment, and Antonio Perez, who was a guest at Essex House in the early 1590's. 
To be sure, both Lopez & Perez were conversos--but they were thought of in England as being, as they undoubtedly were, at least ethnically, Jews.>> 
--------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<<Doctor RODERIGO LOPEZ (1525 -1594) was the Portugese Jewish doctor accused by Essex of trying to poison Queen Elizabeth. 
The 69 year old Dr. Lopez was found guilty and was summarily hung and quartered on June 7, 1594 at Tyburn. 
Long before (September 1560) Dr. Lopez had been the personal house doctor of Robert Dudley and the good doctor was obligated to write the death certificate for Amy Robsart (stating that she had "accidentally" fallen down the stairs). 
That same year (1560) a Spanish priest named RUY LOPEZ handily beat all comers at a chess tournament in Rome. 
Lopez's 1561 book "Libro de la invencion liberal y arte del Juego del Acedraz" became THE classic on Chess openings, including the one that bears his name. 
------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Chess history 1530-1647 
[ ] 
1530 LOPEZ, Ruy b. in Zafra, Spain. 
Spanish priest & leading player. 
1533 Atahualpa, inca emperor of peru, imprisoned & learns chess. 
1542 LEONARDO, Giovanni (a.k.a. Il Puttino/the Boy) born in Calaria. 
1550 Valdiviesco, Don Antonio de, Bishop of Nicaragua, assassinated while playing chess in his palace at Leon. 
1551 Ivan IV of Russia bans chess. 
1555 Castling is introduced. 
1560 Ruy Lopez visits Rome and defeats all the players. 
1561 Last time castling was 2 separate moves. 
1561 Ruy Lopez proposes the 50-move rule to claim a draw. 
1561 Ruy Lopez writes his book on chess. 
Introduces the word gambit. 
(Alcala, 1561) 
1562 St Teresa, a Spanish reformer, includes chess in her writings. 
1570 Gianutto della Mantia, Horatio born in Italy. 
Author of Italian chess book. 
1572 Ruy Lopez defeats several eminent players in Rome. 
1574 Boi and Leonardo beat Lopez & Ceron in presence of Phillip II. 
1575 Leonardo beats Ruy Lopez in Madrid. 
1575 After the Plague of Cremona, all games except chess were banned. 
1576 Boi taken prisoner, but wins his freedom playing chess. 
1580 Catherine de Medici of France is a keen chess player. 
1580 Ruy lopez died. 
1584 Ivan the Terrible dies while starting a game of chess. 
1584 Lopez's book translated into Italian by Tarsia and published in Venice. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<<"I have told you, friend," said the curate, "that this is done to divert our idle thoughts; and as in well-ordered states games of CHESS, fives, and billiards are allowed for the diversion of those who do not care, or are not obliged, or are unable to work, so books of this kind are allowed to be printed, on the supposition that, what indeed is the truth, there can be nobody so ignorant as to take any of them for true stories;>> 
<<"Well then," said Don Quixote, "the same thing happens in the comedy and life of this world, where some play emperors, others popes, and, in short, all the characters that can be brought into a play; but when it is over, that is to say when life ends, death strips them all of the garments that distinguish one from the other, and all are equal in the grave." 
"A fine comparison!" said Sancho; "though not so new but that I have heard it many and many a time, as well as that other one of the game of CHESS; how, so long as the game lasts, each piece has its own particular office, and when the game is finished they are all mixed, jumbled up and shaken together, and stowed away in the bag, which is much like ending life in the grave." 
"Thou art growing less doltish and more shrewd every day, Sancho," said Don Quixote. 
"Ay," said Sancho; "it must be that some of your worship's shrewdness sticks to me; land that, of itself, is barren and dry, will come to yield good fruit if you dung it and till it>> 
--------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Of all Freemason sponsered revolutions: American, French, Bolivar, etc. . . Garibaldi's is the most blatantly Masonic: 
Nostromo A Tale of the Seaboard 
<<After having written so far, Don Martin Decoud, the exotic dandy of the Parisian boulevard, got up and walked across the sanded floor of the cafe at one end of the Albergo of United Italy, kept by Giorgio Viola, the old companion of Garibaldi. 
The highly coloured lithograph of the Faithful Hero seemed to look dimly, in the light of one candle, at the man with no faith in anything except the truth of his own sensations. 
Looking out of the window, Decoud was met by a darkness so impenetrable that he could see neither the mountains nor the town, nor yet the buildings near the harbour; and there was not a sound, as if the tremendous obscurity of the Placid Gulf, spreading from the waters over the land, had made it dumb as well as blind. . . .
He turned away. 
He could bear no longer that expressionless and motionless stare, which seemed to have a sort of impenetrable emptiness like the black depth of an abyss. 
. . . and uneasy in its corporate expression, was overtopped by the big face of Don Juste Lopez, soft and white, with prominent eyelids and wreathed in impenetrable solemnity as if in a dense cloud.>> 
------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Wisteria Lodge 
<<He could do little during the day, for Murillo took every precaution and never went out save with his satellite Lucas, or Lopez as he was known in the days of his greatness. 
At night, however, he slept alone, and the avenger might find him. 
On a certain evening, which had been prearranged, I sent my friend final instructions, for the man was forever on the alert and continually changed his room. 
I was to see that the doors were open and the signal of a green or white light in a window which faced the drive was to give notice if all was safe or if the attempt had better be postponed. 
"But everything went wrong with us. 
In some way I had excited the suspicion of Lopez, the secretary. 
He crept up behind me and sprang upon me just as I had finished the note. 
He and his master dragged me to my room and held judgment upon me as a convicted traitress. 
Then and there they would have plunged their knives into me could they have seen how to escape the consequences of the deed. 
Finally, after much debate, they concluded that my murder was too dangerous. 
But they determined to get rid forever of Garcia. 
They had gagged me, and Murillo twisted my arm round until I gave him the address. 
I swear that he might have twisted it off had I understood what it would mean to Garcia. 
Lopez addressed the note which I had written, sealed it with his sleeve-link, and sent it by the hand of the servant, Jose. 
How they murdered him I do not know, save that it was Murillo's hand who struck him down, for Lopez had remained to guard me. 
I believe he must have waited among the gorse bushes through which the path winds and struck him down as he passed. 
At first they were of a mind to let him enter the house and to kill him as a detected burglar; but they argued that if they were mixed up in an inquiry their own identity would at once be publicly disclosed and they would be open to further attacks. 
With the death of Garcia, the pursuit might cease, since such a death might frighten others from the task.>> 
------------------------------------------------------ 
Art Neuendorffer 
The Rock revolution happened in the Sixties (6, number of the Beast). 
It came from Liverpool, that was the port base to the Titanic, destroyed by God because of the arrogant insult of captain Smith (also from Liverpool): "Not even God can sink my ship" (not only the captain, but also the rest of the crew and even the orchestra playing at the Titanic were from Liverpool). 
The Rock revolution came from the nation that allows a church to be changed to a pub or to a dance room or to a recording studio full of drug addicts, homosexuals and lunatics (as that of George Martin, ally of the Beatles). 
It came from the nation whose king Enrique VIII adulterated the Bible so that divorce could be allowed and in this way be able to give loose rein to the many divorces from his wives and subsequent murdering of the same ones and to whom God provided a wife with six fingers as abomination (Anne Boleyn)...once again 6, number of the Beast.... 
It is interesting to observe that this nation is nicknamed "the Devil's Island". 
As the epithet of the government of Satan on that nation, the center of London, the so well-known Piccadilly Circus, takes it's name from an old brothel (the "Piccadilla House" which means "The House of Sin"), disappeared nowadays. 
The antichrist John Lennon, one of the Devil's main puppets to destroy family, social and moral values and to begin the disintegration of mankind, did hit Stuart Sutcliffe (the first bass player of the Beatles) in the head with a club repeatedly in Hamburg. 
Some months later Sutcliffe died from brain haemorrhage because of John Lennon's bruises. 
John Lennon entered stardom being a murderer. 
The same demons that made captain Smith say "Not even God can sink my ship" spoke from antichrist John Lennon (from Liverpool, base port to the Titanic) saying: "Christianity is on the go. 
It will vanish and shrink. 
We are more popular than Jesus and Pope"....
That was the day that GOD'S CURSE fell upon the world of Rock. 
One week after that declaration, ONLY ONE WEEK LATER, Brian Epstein, forger of the Beatle farce, died from an overdose. 
From then on, the Beatles began to get involved in false religions and to preach them to the world. 
John Lennon's divorce followed, as well as his entering the world of black magic, as deeply as to buy the apartment. where the "Rosemary's baby" had been filmed, previous property of Roman Polansky, and in that same apartment John Lennon had a room upholstered with black silk where he used to do his black magic operations. 
Came the disintegration of the Beatles' minds with LSD which has caused, among others, schizophrenic lyrics such as "I am the Walrus" and incoherent schizophrenic musical expositions like "Revolution number 9". 
At the same time, the devil acted through his other main puppets with "Sympathy for the devil" that was when the pact of the Rolling Stones with Satan took the life of the founder of the group, the guitarist Brian Jones (who refused to be a puppet of the devil), murdered by people sent by Mick Jagger, another assassin. 
Antichrist John Lennon followed the Devil's strategy writing lyrics such as "God is a concept by which we measure our pain...I don't believe in Jesus, etc., etc.," (God) and "and no religions too..." (Imagine). 
Antichrist John Lennon wanted to compete with Jesus Christ, and so he grew a beard and started to make a bogus role of Christ together with Yoko Ono at the Amsterdam Hilton hotel proclaiming "Peace", being then when he was visited by the Canadian journalist who ridiculized and admonished him wanting to know about what Lennon meant when he wrote in the lyrics of "The ballad of John and Yoko": "the way things are going, they're going to crucify me...", The CURSE OF GOD upon John Lennon carried on with all type of miseries and distresses which made Lennon give the interview to the "Rolling Stone" magazine (today condensed in the "Lennon remembers" book) where he speaks about how bad thing were going for him blaming "whatever is up there" for it (referring to God). 
The CURSE OF GOD carried on until he was shot dead. 
It is interesting to notice that he was shot seven times, being seven, as well as three, the holy numbers in Holy Cabalah tradition.... 
After George Harrison, said arrogantly in a video filmed in his studio at Henley on Thames: "I want to talk about the divinity of man", he was given throat cancer by GOD because of those words, which made metastasis and carried on to final death.. 
To Paul McCartney whose company's logo was a person toying with the planets as if he was a god, and who was being very much deluded in his ego trip by the fact that he was made "Sir" (when in England even the road sweeper is made Sir, as long as he produces money for the nation), GOD provided cancer to the wife. 
The advertising farce of how much he loved Linda (woman whose quality he did not deserve), was exposed when it was known that Paul had an affair with Heather Mills, Linda's intimate friend, with whom McCartney went on a trip to New York and to whom he bought things and presents, while he was still mourning for his "dear Linda". 
At the same time McCartney was going out with Heather Mills, he used Linda's death for promotional ends, due to his waning popularity. 
Paul was going out with Heather, but in front of the audience he played the faithful husband's masquerade pretending to suffer for Linda, for the afore mentioned promotional ends. 
Paul admitted that he made Linda suffer a lot, but he didn't say that it was because he felt insecure as a man due to his womanish face and effeminate manners and also because with his age his sexual power was not the same, even though it has never been much. 
The early days were the days of competition between Paul and his wife and John and his wife and he knew he had to compete with ugly John for the leadership of the band in front of their wives and having Yoko Ono made him aware of his lack of virility and repressed homosexuality, he grew the beard that we see in the "Let it Be" film and started to show pictures of naked women in the same film, doing every effort he could to be seen as a man.... 
It is easy to note the uneasiness of McCartney when he sings: "I've got a feeling, a feeling I can't hide..." in front of Yoko in the film. 
(He already had the traumas that his previous girlfriend Jane Asher had caused him when she made him aware of his little manliness and effeminate manners). 
Paul has such a big inferiority complex as a man, due to his effeminate face, body and personality and due to his repressed homosexuality, that he found himself a handicapped woman with only one leg, so that he could stand out, being very conscious that a full woman would make him feel the superiority of virile men again, as Jane and Linda did. 
This is something that his ego trip of lucky bad musician could not face anymore....
He is very conscious that money and fame cannot buy virility and manliness. 
Besides being a murderer, John Lennon had sexual intercourse with homosexual Brian Epstein to get him interested in going to see the band at the Cavern, trauma from which he never recovered. 
Because of the trauma that his homosexual relation with Brian Epstein had left him, he made lyrics such as: "You can wear a collar and a tie, one thing you can't hide is when you're crippled inside" and gave declarations to the "Rolling Stone" magazine saying that "sometimes he wore Texan boots to feel more secure as a man". 
The Beatles are very well known by people close to them for their arrogance and racism. 
One of the manifestations of their racism is the rejection towards Japanese Yoko Ono. 
That rejection got to the point that George Harrison kicked Yoko Ono in the Apple studios during the filming of Let it Be. 
When John asked George while they were having lunch about how things were going for Paul after his separation from the Beatles and George replied that he was number one in the Swedish hit parade, John said in a despective manner: "ah!!.. in Sweden..", as if Sweden was an inferior place or something alike. 
In the Beatles' song "Get Back" they advise black Joe to "get back to where you once belonged", as if England was not a place for black people. 
Sometimes back, Paul told George in the Apple offices that the new generations are a bundle of idiots and useless people, but in any way they would have also been slaves of the Beatles. 
The Jewish marriage living to the right of George's house said that he is an arrogant person who does never return a greeting. 
The newly married couple living on the corner in front of the entrance of George's house (Friar Park) refers to him as an overbearing person to stay away from. 
The receptionist of "Hand made", the former film making company of George Harrison said: "we don't have any relation with that man anymore and we don't want to know anything about him". 
It is interesting to note that this company was made bankrupt by the British cinema industry due to the despotism and pedantry of George Harrison, who believed that the cinema industry would have worshiped him. 
Their chauvinisms got to the point that even they themselves hated each other. 
Paul McCartney said that George Harrison is a nothing. 
George Harrison said that he is tired of listening to people talk about John Lennon.... 
George Harrison said in a video that "Oasis is a very untalented band and they shouldn't be playing at all", all of it being the truth, but the Beatles is also a band of very poor musicians, if musicians at all, who could only play a couple of elementary guitar chords and who are as untalented as Oasis. 
The Beatles of the times of the "Cavern" sounded exactly as poorly as Oasis and the little musical quality in the songs of the Beatles is due to George Martin. 
Without George Martin the Beatles would have been just another untalented band as Oasis.... 
Paul McCartney said recently that he believes in using magic, and he does lots of charity, thinking that in this way he will compensate for the CURSE OF GOD that is upon him and that took his wife's life because of his Satanism and involvement in black magic. 
He thinks he will deceive people in this way, so that the real McCartney will not be perceived. 
Is the old Devil attempting to disguise as good in front of people. 
Satan deceiving mankind once again, as so many other thousands of times through the centuries.... 
After the Devil began his devastating job from the ghostly "Devil's Island" through his nine main puppets (Beatles-Rolling Stones), he possessed an endless amount of other schizophrenic bad musician in the afore mentioned Island and weakening their conscience with drugs, he made them proclaimers of homosexuality, aversion to religion, destruction of family values, dissipation, mental illness, antisocialism, etc., etc., 
The fact that bad apprentice musicians such as the Beatles and the Rolling Stones achieved such a giant fame that not even the real quality musicians could achieve, was because the forces of Satan were behind everything, supporting the process. 
This mentally ill humanity, destroyed families, twisted moral values, manifest or repressed homosexuality in human beings, anti natural feminism rebellion, drug addiction, corrupt social outlines, mad youths without direction, non respect to hierarchies, convulsed nations, misanthropy, misogyny, paedophilia, irrational and feeble lasciviousness and all other type of existent aberrations, are due to the vast manoeuvre that Satan executed through his main marionettes the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, from the Devil's Island. 
If you wonder why there is misery and curse in your house, it is because you own some L.P, CD or another article related to the CURSED BY GOD Beatles and Rolling Stones. 
We recommend you to take that curse out of your house throwing away everything related to the Devil's main nine puppets.... 
You have been warned... 
THE HIGH COURT. 
(The Five Judges) 
For the sake of mankind, you should email our verdict to your friends. 
Email: yamwhatiyam <pop...@spinach.eat> 
Groups: alt.consumers, ba.consumers, misc.consumers, misc.consumers.frugal-living 
Attack on Iran: A Looming Folly 
By William Rivers Pitt 
t r u t h o u t | Perspective 
Monday 09 January 2006 
The wires have been humming since before the New Year with reports that the Bush administration is planning an attack on Iran. 
"The Bush administration is preparing its NATO allies for a possible military strike against suspected nuclear sites in Iran in the New Year, according to German media reports, reinforcing similar earlier suggestions in the Turkish media," reported UPI on December 30th. 
"The Berlin daily Der Tagesspiegel this week," continued UPI, "quoted 'NATO intelligence sources' who claimed that the NATO allies had been informed that the United States is currently investigating all possibilities of bringing the mullah-led regime into line, including military options. 
This 'all options are open' line has been President George W Bush's publicly stated policy throughout the past 18 months." 
An examination of the ramifications of such an attack is desperately in order. 
1. Blowback in Iraq 
The recent elections in Iraq were dominated by an amalgam of religiously fundamentalist Shi'ite organizations, principally the Dawa Party and the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI). 
Both Dawa and SCIRI have umbilical connections to the fundamentalist Shi'ite leadership in Iran that go back decades. 
In essence, Iran now owns a significant portion of the Iraqi government. 
Should the United States undertake military action against Iran, the ramifications in Iraq would be immediate and extreme. 
In the first eight days of January, eighteen US troops have been killed in Iraq, compounded by another twelve deaths from a Black Hawk helicopter crash on Saturday. 
Much of the violence aimed at American forces is coming from disgruntled Sunni factions that have their own militias, believe the last elections were a sham, and hold little political power in the government. 
If the US attacks Iran, it is probable that American forces - already taxed by attacks from Sunni factions - will also face reprisal attacks in Iraq from Shi'ite factions loyal to Iran. 
The result will be a dramatic escalation in US and civilian casualties, US forces will be required to bunker themselves further into their bases, and US forces will find themselves required to fight the very government they just finished helping into power. 
Iraq, already a seething cauldron, will sink further into chaos. 
2. Iran's Armaments 
Unlike Iraq, Iran has not spent the last fifteen years having its conventional forces worn down by grueling sanctions, repeated attacks, and two American-led wars. 
While Iran's conventional army is not what it was during the heyday of the Iran-Iraq war - their armaments have deteriorated and the veterans of that last war have retired - the nation enjoys substantial military strength nonetheless. 
According to a report issued by the Center for Strategic and International Studies in December of 2004, Iran "has some 540,000 men under arms and over 350,000 reserves. 
They include 120,000 Iranian Revolutionary Guards trained for land and naval asymmetrical warfare. 
Iran's military also includes holdings of 1,613 main battle tanks, 21,600 other armored fighting vehicles, 3,200 artillery weapons, 306 combat aircraft, 60 attack helicopters, 3 submarines, 59 surface combatants, and 10 amphibious ships." 
"Iran is now the only regional military power that poses a significant conventional military threat to Gulf stability," continued the CSIS report. 
"Iran has significant capabilities for asymmetric warfare, and poses the additional threat of proliferation. 
There is considerable evidence that it is developing both a long-range missile force and a range of weapons of mass destruction. 
It has never properly declared its holdings of chemical weapons, and the status of its biological weapons programs is unknown." 
A MILNET brief issued in February 2005 reports, "Due to its position astride the Persian Gulf, Iran has constantly been a threat to the Gulf. 
The so called 'Tanker' wars in the late 1980s put Iran squarely in the bullseye of all nations seeking to transport oil out of the region. 
Even the small navy that Iran puts to sea is capable enough to harass shipping, and several cases of small boat operations against oil well heads in the Gulf during that period made it clear small asymmetrical tactics of the Iranian Navy could be quite effective." 
"More concerning," continued the MILNET brief, "is the priority placed on expanding and modernizing its Navy. 
The CSIS report cites numerous areas where Iran has funded modernization including the most troublesome aspect, anti-shipping cruise missiles: 'Iran has obtained new anti-ship missiles and missile patrol craft from China, midget submarines from North Korea, submarines from Russia, and modern mines.'" 
It is Iran's missile armaments that pose the greatest concern for American forces in the Gulf, especially for the US Navy. 
Iran's coast facing the Persian Gulf is a looming wall of mountains that look down upon any naval forces arrayed in those waters. 
The Gulf itself only has one exit, the Strait of Hormuz, which is also dominated by the mountainous Iranian coastline. 
In essence, Iran holds the high ground in the Gulf. 
Missile batteries arrayed in those mountains could raise bloody havoc with any fleet deployed below. 
Of all the missiles in Iran's armament, the most dangerous is the Russian-made SS-N-22 Sunburn. 
These missiles are, simply, the fastest anti-ship weapons on the planet. 
The Sunburn can reach Mach 3 at high altitude. 
Its maximum low-altitude speed is Mach 2.2, some three times faster than the American-made Harpoon. 
The Sunburn takes two short minutes to cover its full range. 
The missile's manufacturers state that one or two missiles could cripple a destroyer, and five missiles could sink a 20,000 ton ship. 
The Sunburn is also superior to the Exocet missile. 
Recall that it was two Exocets that ripped the USS Stark to shreds in 1987, killing 37 sailors. 
The Stark could not see them to stop them. 
The US aircraft carrier Theodore Roosevelt is currently deployed in the Persian Gulf, with some 7,000 souls aboard. 
Sailing with the Roosevelt is the Tarawa Expeditionary Strike Force, which includes the USS Tarawa, the USS Austin, and the USS Pearl Harbor. 
The USS Austin is likewise deployed in the Gulf. 
The Sunburn missile, with its incredible speed and ability to avoid radar detection, would do terrible damage these ships if Iran chooses to retaliate in the Gulf after an American attack within its borders. 
Beyond the naval threat is the possibility of Iran throwing its military muscle into the ongoing struggle in Iraq. 
Currently, the US is facing an asymmetrical attack from groups wielding small arms, shoulder-fired grenades and roadside bombs. 
The vaunted American military has suffered 2,210 deaths and tens of thousands of wounded from this form of warfare. 
The occupation of Iraq has become a guerrilla war, a siege that has lasted more than a thousand days. 
If Iran decides to throw any or all of its 23,000 armored fighting vehicles, along with any or all of its nearly million-strong army, into the Iraq fray, the situation in the Middle East could become unspeakably dire. 
3. The Syrian Connection 
In February of 2005, Iran and Syria agreed upon a mutual protection pact to combat "challenges and threats" in the region. 
This was a specific reaction to the American invasion of Iraq, and a reaction to America's condemnation of Syria after the death of Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, which was widely seen as an assassination ordered from Damascus. 
An attack on Iran would trigger this mutual defense pact, and could conceivably bring Syria into direct conflict with American forces. 
Like Iran, Syria's military is nothing to scoff at. 
Virtually every credible analysis has Syria standing as the strongest military force in the Middle East after Israel. 
Damascus has been intent for years upon establishing significant military strength to serve as a counterweight to Israel's overwhelming capabilities. 
As of 2002, Syria had some 215,000 soldiers under arms, 4,700 tanks, and a massive artillery capability. 
The Syrian Air Force is comprised of ten to eleven fighter/attack squadrons and sixteen fighter squadrons, totaling somewhere near 650 aircraft. 
Syria also possesses one of the largest arsenals of ballistic missiles in the region, comprised primarily of SCUD-derived systems. 
Iran, North Korea and China have been willing providers of state-of-the-art technologies. 
Compounding this is the well-based suspicion that Syria has perhaps the most advanced chemical weapons capability in the Persian Gulf. 
4. China and the US Economy 
While the ominous possibilities of heightened Iraqi chaos, missiles in the Gulf, and Syrian involvement loom large if the US attacks Iran, all pale in comparison to the involvement of China in any US/Iran engagement. 
China's economy is exploding, hampered only by their great thirst for petroleum and natural gas to fuel their industry. 
In the last several months, China has inked deals with Iran for $70 billion dollars worth of Iranian oil and natural gas. 
China will purchase 250 million tons of liquefied natural gas from Iran over the next 30 years, will develop the massive Yadavaran oil field in Iran, and will receive 150,000 barrels of oil per day from that field. 
China is seeking the construction of a pipeline from Iran to the Caspian Sea, where it would link with another planned pipeline running from Kazakhstan to China. 
Any US attack on Iran could be perceived by China as a direct threat to its economic health. 
Further, any fighting in the Persian Gulf would imperil the tankers running China's liquefied natural gas through the Strait of Hormuz. 
Should China decide to retaliate against the US to defend its oil and natural gas deal with Iran, the US would be faced with a significant threat. 
This threat exists not merely on a military level, though China could force a confrontation in the Pacific by way of Taiwan. 
More significantly, China holds a large portion of the American economy in the palm of its hand. 
Paul Craig Roberts, writing for The American Conservative, said in July of 2005 that "As a result of many years of persistent trade surpluses with the United States, the Japanese government holds dollar reserves of approximately $1 trillion. 
China's accumulation of dollars is approximately $600 billion. 
South Korea holds about $200 billion. 
These sums give these countries enormous leverage over the United States. 
By dumping some portion of their reserves, these countries could put the dollar under intense pressure and send U.S. interest rates skyrocketing. 
Washington would really have to anger Japan and Korea to provoke such action, but in a showdown with China - over Taiwan, for example - China holds the cards. 
China and Japan, and the world at large, have more dollar reserves than they require. 
They would have no problem teaching a hegemonic superpower a lesson if the need arose." 
"The hardest blow on Americans," concluded Roberts, "will fall when China does revalue its currency. 
When China's currency ceases to be undervalued, American shoppers in Wal-Mart, where 70 percent of the goods on the shelves are made in China, will think they are in Neiman Marcus. 
Price increases will cause a dramatic reduction in American real incomes. 
If this coincides with rising interest rates and a setback in the housing market, American consumers will experience the hardest times since the Great Depression." 
In short, China has the American economy by the throat. 
Should they decide to squeeze, we will all feel it. 
China's strong hand in this even extends to the diplomatic realm; China is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, and could veto any actions against Iran proposed by the United States. 
5. American Preparedness 
American citizens have for decades taken it as a given that our military can overwhelm and overcome any foe on the battlefield. 
The rapid victory during the first Gulf War cemented this perception. 
The last three years of the Iraq occupation, however, have sapped this confidence. 
Worse, the occupation has done great damage to the strength of the American military, justifying the decrease in confidence. 
Thanks to repeated deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan, recruiting is at an all-time low. 
Soldiers with vital training and know-how are refusing to re-enlist. 
Across the board, the American military is stretched to the breaking point. 
Two vaunted economists - one a Nobel Prize winner and the other a nationally renowned budget expert - have analyzed the data at hand and put a price tag on the Iraq occupation. 
According to Linda Bilmes of Harvard and Nobel Laureate Joseph E. Stiglitz of Columbia University, the final cost of the Iraq occupation will run between $1 trillion and $2 trillion, surpassing by orders of magnitude the estimates put forth by the Bush administration. 
If an engagement with Iran envelops our forces in Iraq, and comes to involve Syria, our economy will likely shatter under the strain of fighting so many countries simultaneously. 
Add to this the economic threat posed by China, and the economic threat implicit in any substantial disruption of the distribution of Mideast petroleum to the globe. 
If Iran and Syria - with their significant armaments, missile technologies and suspected chemical weapons capabilities - decide to engage with the relatively undersized US force in Iraq, our troops there will be fish in a barrel. 
Iran's position over the Gulf would make resupply by ship and air support from carriers a dangerous affair. 
In the worst-case scenario, the newly-minted American order of battle requiring the use of nuclear weapons to rescue a surrounded and imperiled force could come into play, hurling the entire planet into military and diplomatic bedlam. 
Conclusion: Is Any of This Possible? 
The question must be put as directly as possible: what manner of maniac would undertake a path so fraught with peril and potential economic catastrophe? 
It is difficult to imagine a justification for any action that could envelop the United States in a military and economic conflict with Iraq, Iran, Syria and China simultaneously. 
Iran is suspected by many nations of working towards the development of nuclear weapons, but even this justification has been tossed into a cocked hat. 
Recently, Russian president Vladimir Putin bluntly stated that Iran is not developing its nuclear capability for any reasons beyond peaceful energy creation, and pledged to continue assisting Iran in this endeavor. 
Therefore, any attack upon Iran's nuclear facilities will bring Russia into the mess. 
Iran also stands accused of aiding terrorism across the globe. 
The dangers implicit in any attack upon that nation, however, seem to significantly offset whatever gains could be made in the so-called "War on Terror." 
Unfortunately, all the dangers in the world are no match for the self-assurance of a bubble-encased zealot. 
What manner of maniac would undertake such a dangerous course? 
Look no further than 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. 
George W. Bush and his administration have consistently undertaken incredibly dangerous courses of action in order to garner political power on the home front. 
Recall the multiple terror threats lobbed out by the administration whenever damaging political news appeared in the media. 
More significantly, recall Iraq. 
Karl Rove, Bush's most senior advisor, notoriously told Republicans on the ballot during the 2002 midterms to "run on the war." 
The invasion of Iraq provided marvelous political cover for the GOP not only during those midterms, but during the 2004 Presidential election. 
What kind of political cover would be gained from an attack on Iran, and from the diversion of attention to that attack? 
The answer lies in one now-familiar name: Jack Abramoff. 
The Abramoff scandal threatens to subsume all the hard-fought GOP gains in Congress, and the 2006 midterms are less than a year away. 
Is any of this a probability? 
Logic says no, but logic seldom plays any part in modern American politics. 
All arguments that the Bush administration would be insane to attack Iran and risk a global conflagration for the sake of political cover run into one unavoidable truth. 
They did it once already in Iraq. 
By Graydon Carter (excepted from "What We've Lost", published by Little Brown) 
68.4 - Average Number of species added to the Endangered and Threatened Species list each year between 1991 and 2000. 
0 - Number of endangered species voluntarily added by the Bush administration since taking office. 
408 - Number of species that could be extinct by 2050 if the global-warming trend continues. 
0 - Number of times Bush mentioned global warming, clean air, clean water, pollution or environment in his 2004 State of the Union speech. 
His father was the last president to go through an entire State of the Union address without mentioning the environment. 
1 - Number of paragraphs devoted to global warming in the EPA's 600-page "Draft Report on the Environment" presented in 2003. 
68 - Number of days after taking office that Bush decided Not to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, the international treaty to reduce greenhouse gases by roughly 5.2 per cent below 1990 levels by 2012. 
The United States was to cut its level by 7 per cent. 
1 The rank of the United States worldwide in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. 
25 - Percentage of overall worldwide carbon dioxide emissions the United States is responsible for. 
53 - Number of days after taking office that Bush reneged on his campaign promise to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from power plants. 
14 - Percentage carbon dioxide emissions will increase over the next 10 years under Bush's own global-warming plan (an increase of 30 per cent above their 1990 levels). 
5 - Number of years the Bush administration said in 2003 that global warming must be further studied before substantive action could be taken. 
$44m- Amount the Bush-Cheney 2000 campaign and the Republican National Committee received in contributions from the fossil fuel, chemical, timber, and mining industries. 
200 - Number of regulation rollbacks downgrading or weakening environmental laws in Bush's first three years in office. 
31 - Number of Bush administration appointees who are alumni of the energy industry (includes four cabinet secretaries, the six most powerful White House officials, and more than 20 other high-level appointees). 
50= Approximate number of policy changes and regulation rollbacks injurious to the environment that have been announced by the Bush administration on Fridays after 5pm, a time that makes it all but impossible for news organisations to relay the information to the widest possible audience. 
50 - Percentage decline in Environmental Protection Agency enforcement actions against polluters under Bush's watch. 
34 - Percentage decline in criminal penalties for environmental crimes since Bush took office. 
50 - Percentage decline in civil penalties for environmental crimes since Bush took office. 
$6.1m - Amount the EPA historically valued each human life when conducting economic analyses of proposed regulations. 
$3.7m - Amount the EPA valued each human life when conducting analyses of proposed regulations during the Bush administration. 
62 - Number of members of Cheney's 63-person Energy Task Force with ties to corporate energy interests. 
0 - Number of environmentalists asked to attend Cheney's Energy Task Force meetings. 
6 - Number of months before 11 September that Cheney's Energy Task Force investigated Iraq's oil reserves. 
2 - Percentage of the world's population that is British. 
2 - Percentage of the world's oil used by Britain. 
5 - Percentage of the world's population that is American. 
25 - Percentage of the world's oil used by America. 
63 - Percentage of oil the United States imported in 2003, a record high. 
24,000 - Estimated number of premature deaths that will occur under Bush's Clear Skies initiative. 
300 - Number of Clean Water Act violations by the mountaintop-mining industry in 2003. 
750,000 - Tons of toxic waste the US military, the world's biggest polluter, generates around the world each year. 
$3.8bn - Amount in the Superfund trust fund for toxic site clean-ups in 1995, the Year "polluter pays" fees expired. 
$0 - Amount of uncommitted dollars in the Superfund trust fund for toxic site clean-ups in 2003. 
270 - Estimated number of court decisions citing federal Negligence in endangered-species protection that remained unheeded during the first year of the Bush administration. 
100 - Percentage of those decisions that Bush then decided to allow the government to ignore indefinitely. 
50- Percentage of screened workers at Ground Zero who now suffer from long-term health problems, almost half of whom don't have health insurance. 
78 - Percentage of workers at Ground Zero who now suffer from lung ailments. 
88 - Percentage of workers at Ground Zero who Now suffer from ear, nose, or throat problems. 
22 - Asbestos levels at Ground Zero were 22 times higher than the levels in Libby, Montana, where the W R Grace mine produced one of the worst Superfund disasters in US history. 
1 - Number of Bush administration public statements on National security issued between 20 January 2001 and 10 September 2001 that mentioned al-Qa'ida. 
104 - Number of Bush administration public statements on National security and defense in the same period that mentioned Iraq or Saddam Hussein. 
101 - Number of Bush administration public statements on National security and defense in the same period that mentioned missile defence. 
65 - Number of Bush administration public statements on National security and defense in the same period that mentioned weapons of mass destruction. 
0 - Number of times Bush mentioned Osama bin Laden in his three State of the Union addresses. 
73 - Number of times that Bush mentioned terrorism or terrorists in his three State of the Union addresses. 
83 - Number of times Bush mentioned Saddam, Iraq, or regime (as in change) in his three State of the Union addresses. 
$1m - Estimated value of a painting the Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas, received from Prince Bandar, Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the United States and Bush family friend. 
0 - Number of times Bush mentioned Saudi Arabia in his three State of the Union addresses. 
1,700- Percentage increase between 2001 and 2002 of Saudi Arabian spending on public relations in the United States. 
79 - Percentage of the 11 September hijackers who came from Saudi Arabia. 
3 = Number of 11 September hijackers whose entry visas came through special US-Saudi "Visa Express" programme. 
140 - Number of Saudis, including members of the Bin Laden family, evacuated from United States almost immediately after 11 September. 
14 - Number of Immigration and Naturalisation Service (INS) agents assigned to track down 1,200 known illegal immigrants in the United States from countries where al-Qa'ida is active. 
$3m - Amount the White House was willing to grant the 9/11 Commission to investigate the 11 September attacks. 
$0 - Amount approved by George Bush to hire more INS special agents. 
$10m- Amount Bush cut from the INS's existing terrorism budget. 
$50m - Amount granted to the commission that looked into the Columbia space shuttle crash. 
$5m - Amount a 1996 federal commission was given to study legalised gambling. 
7 - Number of Arabic linguists fired by the US army between mid-August and mid-October 2002 for being gay. 
George Bush: Military man 
1972 - Year that Bush walked away from his pilot duties in the Texas National Guard, Nearly two years before his six-year obligation was up. 
$3,500 - Reward a group of veterans offered in 2000 for anyone who could confirm Bush's Alabama guard service. 
600-700 - Number of guardsmen who were in Bush's unit during that period. 
0 - Number of guardsmen from that period who came forward with information about Bush's guard service. 
0 - Number of minutes that President Bush, Vice-President Dick Cheney, the Defence Secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, the assistant Defence Secretary, Paul Wolfowitz, the former chairman of the Defence Policy Board, Richard Perle, and the White House Chief of Staff, Karl Rove - the main proponents of the war in Iraq -served in combat (combined). 
0 - Number of principal civilian or Pentagon staff members who planned the war who have immediate family members serving in uniform in Iraq. 
8 - Number of members of the US Senate and House of Representatives who have a child serving in the military. 
10 - Number of days that the Pentagon spent investigating a soldier who had called the President "a joke" in a letter to the editor of a Newspaper. 
46 - Percentage increase in sales between 2001 and 2002 of GI Joe figures (children's toys). 
Ambitious warrior 
2 - Number of Nations that George Bush has attacked and taken over since coming into office. 
130 - Approximate Number of countries (out of a total of 191 recognised by the United Nations) with a US military presence. 
43 - Percentage of the entire world's military spending that the US spends on defence. 
(That was in 2002, the year before the invasion of Iraq.) 
$401.3b - Proposed military budget for 2004. 
Saviour of Iraq 
1983 - The year in which Donald Rumsfeld, Ronald Reagan's special envoy to the Middle East, gave Saddam Hussein a pair of golden spurs as a gift. 
2.5 - Number of hours after Rumsfeld learnt that Osama bin Laden was a suspect in the 11 September attacks that he brought up reasons to "hit" Iraq. 
237 - Minimum number of misleading statements on Iraq made by top Bush administration officials between 2002 and January 2004, according to the California Representative Henry Waxman. 
10m - Estimated number of people worldwide who took to the streets on 21 February 2003, in opposition to the invasion of Iraq, the largest simultaneous protest in world history. 
$2b - Estimated monthly cost of US military presence in Iraq projected by the White House in April 2003. 
$4b - Actual monthly cost of the US military presence in Iraq according to Secretary of Defence Rumsfeld in 2004. 
$15m - Amount of a contract awarded to an American firm to build a cement factory in Iraq. 
$80,000 - Amount an Iraqi firm spent (using Saddam's confiscated funds) to build the same factory, after delays prevented the American firm from starting it. 
2000 - Year that Cheney said his policy as CEO of Halliburton oil services company was "we wouldn't do anything in Iraq". 
$4.7b - Total value of contracts awarded to Halliburton in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
$680m - Estimated value of Iraq reconstruction contracts awarded to Bechtel. 
$2.8b - Value of Bechtel Corp contracts in Iraq. 
$120b - Amount the war and its aftermath are projected to cost for the 2004 fiscal year. 
35 - Number of countries to which the United States suspended military assistance after they failed to sign agreements giving Americans immunity from prosecution before the International Criminal Court. 
92 - Percentage of Iraq's urban areas with access to potable water in late 2002. 
60 - Percentage of Iraq's urban areas with access to potable water in late 2003. 
55 - Percentage of the Iraqi workforce who were unemployed before the war. 
80 - Percentage of the Iraqi workforce who are unemployed a Year after the war. 
0 - Number of American combat deaths in Germany after the Nazi surrender in May 1945. 
37 - Death toll of US soldiers in Iraq in May 2003, the month combat operations "officially" ended. 
0 - Number of coffins of dead soldiers returning home that the Bush administration has permitted to be photographed. 
0 - Number of memorial services for the returned dead that Bush has attended since the beginning of the war. 
A soldier's best friend 
40,000 - Number of soldiers in Iraq seven months after start of the war still without Interceptor vests, designed to stop a round from an AK-47. 
$60m - Estimated cost of outfitting those 40,000 soldiers with Interceptor vests. 
62 - Percentage of gas masks that army investigators discovered did Not work properly in autumn 2002. 
90 - Percentage of detectors which give early warning of a biological weapons attack found to be defective. 
87 - Percentage of Humvees in Iraq not equipped with armour capable of stopping AK-47 rounds and protecting against roadside bombs and landmines at the end of 2003. 
Making the country safer 
$3.29- Average amount allocated per person Nationwide in the first round of homeland security grants. 
$94.40 - Amount allocated per person for homeland security in American Samoa. 
$36 - Amount allocated per person for homeland security in Wyoming, Vice-President Cheney's home state. 
$17 - Amount allocated per person in New York state. 
$5.87 - Amount allocated per person in New York City. 
$77.92 - Amount allocated per person in New Haven, Connecticut, home of Yale University, Bush's alma mater. 
76 - Percentage of 215 cities surveyed by the US Conference of Mayors in early 2004 that had yet to receive a dime in federal homeland security assistance for their first-response units. 
5 - Number of major US airports at the beginning of 2004 that the Transportation Security Administration admitted were Not fully screening baggage electronically. 
22,600 - Number of planes carrying unscreened cargo that fly into New York each month. 
5 - Estimated Percentage of US air cargo that is screened, including cargo transported on passenger planes. 
95 - Percentage of foreign goods that arrive in the United States by sea. 
2 - Percentage of those goods subjected to thorough inspection. 
$5.5b - Estimated cost to secure fully US ports over the Next decade. 
$0 - Amount Bush allocated for port security in 2003. 
$46m - Amount the Bush administration has budgeted for port security in 2005. 
15,000 - Number of major chemical facilities in the United States. 
100 - Number of US chemical plants where a terrorist act could endanger the lives of more than one million people. 
0 - Number of new drugs or vaccines against "priority pathogens" listed by the Centres for Disease Control that have been developed and introduced since 11 September 2001. 
Giving a hand up to the advantaged 
$10.9m - Average wealth of the members of Bush's original 16-person cabinet. 
75 - Percentage of Americans unaffected by Bush's sweeping 2003 cuts in capital gains and dividends taxes. 
$42,000 - Average savings members of Bush's cabinet received in 2003 as a result of cuts in capital gains and dividends taxes. 
10 - Number of fellow members from the Yale secret society Skull and Bones that Bush has named to important positions (including the Associate Attorney General Robert McCallum Jr. and SEC chief Bill Donaldson). 
79 - Number of Bush's initial 189 appointees who also served in his father's administration. 
A man with a lot of friends 
$113m - Amount of total hard money the Bush-Cheney 2000 campaign received, a record. 
$11.5m - Amount of hard money raised through the Pioneer programme, the controversial fund-raising process created for the Bush-Cheney 2000 campaign. 
(Participants pledged to raise at least $100,000 by bundling together cheques of up to $1,000 from friends and family. 
Pioneers were assigned numbers, which were included on all cheques, enabling the campaign to keep track of who raised how much.) 
George Bush: Money manager 
4.7m - Number of bankruptcies that were declared during Bush's first three years in office. 
2002 - The worst year for major markets since the recession of the 1970s. 
$489b - The US trade deficit in 2003, the worst in history for a single year. 
$5.6t - Projected national surplus forecast by the end of the decade when Bush took office in 2001. 
$7.22t - US national debt by mid-2004. 
George Bush: Tax cutter 
87 - Percentage of American families in April 2004 who say they have felt no benefit from Bush's tax cuts. 
39 - Percentage of tax cuts that will go to the top 1 per cent of American families when fully phased in. 
49 - Percentage of Americans in April 2004 who found that their taxes had actually gone up since Bush took office. 
88 - Percentage of American families who will save less than $100 on their 2006 federal taxes as a result of 2003 cut in capital gains and dividends taxes. 
$30,858 - Amount Bush himself saved in taxes in 2003. 
Employment tsar 
9.3m - Number of US unemployed in April 2004. 
2.3m - Number of Americans who lost their jobs during first three Years of the Bush administration. 
22m - Number of jobs gained during Clinton's eight years in office. 
Friend of the poor 
34.6m - Number of Americans living below the poverty line (1 in 8 of the population). 
6.8m - Number of people in the workforce but still classified as poor. 
35m - Number of Americans that the government defines as "food insecure," in other words, hungry. 
$300m - Amount cut from the federal programme that provides subsidies to poor families so they can heat their homes. 
40 - Percentage of wealth in the United States held by the richest 1 per cent of the population. 
18 - Percentage of wealth in Britain held by the richest 1e per cent of the population. 
George Bush And his special friend 
$60b - Loss to Enron stockholders, following the largest bankruptcy in US history. 
$205m - Amount Enron CEO Kenneth Lay earned from stock option profits over a four-year period. 
$101m - Amount Lay made from selling his Enron shares just before the company went bankrupt. 
$59,339 - Amount the Bush campaign reimbursed Enron for 14 trips on its corporate jet during the 2000 campaign. 
30 - Length of time in months between Enron's collapse and Lay (whom the President called "Kenny Boy") still not being charged with a crime. 
George Bush: Lawman 
15 - Average number of minutes Bush spent reviewing capital punishment cases while governor of Texas. 
46 - Percentage of Republican federal judges when Bush came to office. 
57 - Percentage of Republican federal judges after three years of the Bush administration. 
33 - Percentage of the $15bn Bush pledged to fight Aids in Africa that must go to abstinence-only programmes. 
The Civil libertarian 
680 - Number of suspected al-Qa'ida members that the United States admits are detained at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. 
42 - Number of nationalities of those detainees at Guantanamo. 
22 - Number of hours prisoners were handcuffed, shackled, and made to wear surgical masks, earmuffs, and blindfolds during their flight to Guantanamo. 
32 - Number of confirmed suicide attempts by Guantanamo Bay prisoners. 
24 - Number of prisoners in mid-2003 being monitored by psychiatrists in Guantanamo's new mental ward. 
A health-conscious president 
43.6m - Number of Americans without health insurance by the end of 2002 (more than 15 per cent of the population). 
2.4m - Number of Americans who lost their health insurance during Bush's first year in office. 
Image booster for the US 
2,500- Number of public-diplomacy officers employed by the State Department to further the image of the US abroad in 1991. 
1,200 - Number of public-diplomacy officers employed by the State Department to further US image abroad in 2004. 
4- Rank of the United States among countries considered to be the greatest threats to world peace according to a 2003 Pew Global Attitudes study (Israel, Iran, and North Korea were considered more dangerous; Iraq was considered less dangerous). 
$66b - Amount the United States spent on international aid and diplomacy in 1949. 
$23.8b - Amount the United States spent on international aid and diplomacy in 2002. 
85- Percentage of Indonesians who had an unfavourable image of the United States in 2003. 
Second-party endorsements 
90 - Percentage of Americans who approved of the way Bush was handling his job as president on 26 September 2001. 
67 - Percentage of Americans who approved of the way Bush was handling his job as president on 26 September 2002. 
54 - Percentage of Americans who approved of the way Bush was handling his job as president on 30 September, 2003. 
50 - Percentage of Americans who approved of the way Bush was handling his job as president on 15 October 2003. 
49 - Percentage of Americans who approved of the way Bush was handling his job as president in May 2004. 
More like the French than he would care to admit 
28 - Number of vacation days Bush took in August 2003, the second-longest vacation of any president in US history. 
(Record holder Richard Nixon.) 
13 - Number of vacation days the average American receives each Year. 
28 - Number of vacation days Bush took in August 2001, the month he received a 6 August Presidential Daily Briefing headed "Osama bin Laden Determined to Strike US Targets." 
500 - Number of days Bush has spent all or part of his time away from the White House at his ranch in Crawford, Texas, his parents' retreat in Kennebunkport, Maine, or Camp David as of 1 April 2004. 
No fool when it comes to the press 
11 - Number of press conferences during his first three years in office in which Bush referred to questions as being "trick" ones. 
Factors in his favor 
3 - Number of companies that control the US voting technology market. 
52 - Percentage of votes cast during the 2002 midterm elections that were recorded by Election Systems & Software, the largest voting-technology firm, a big Republican donor. 
29 - Percentage of votes that will be cast via computer voting machines that don't produce a paper record. 
17 - On 17 November 2001, The Economist printed a correction for having said George Bush was properly elected in 2000. 
$113m- Amount raised by the Bush-Cheney 2000 campaign, the most in American electoral history. 
$185m - Amount raised by the Bush-Cheney 2004 re-election campaign, to the end of March 2004. 
$200m - Amount that the Bush-Cheney 2004 campaign expects to raise by November 2004. 
268 Number of Bush-Cheney fund-raisers who had earned Pioneer status (by raising $100,000 each) as of March 2004. 
187 - Number of Bush-Cheney fund-raisers who had earned Ranger status (by raising $200,000 each) as of March 2004. 
$64.2m - The Amount Pioneers and Rangers had raised for Bush-Cheney as of March 2004. 
85 - Percentage of Americans who can't Name the Chief Justice of the United States. 
69 - Percentage of Americans who believed the White House's claims in September 2003 that Saddam Hussein was personally involved in the 11 September attacks. 
34 - Percentage of Americans who believed in June 2003 that Saddam's "weapons of mass destruction" had been found. 
22- Percentage of Americans who believed in May 2003 that Saddam had used his WMDs on US forces. 
85 - Percentage of American young adults who cannot find Afghanistan, Iraq, or Israel on a map. 
30 - Percentage of American young adults who cannot find the Pacific Ocean on a map. 
75 - Percentage of American young adults who don't know the population of the United States. 
53 - Percentage of Canadian young adults who don't know the population of the United States. 
11 - Percentage of American young adults who cannot find the United States on a map. 
30 - Percentage of Americans who believe that "politics and government are too complicated to understand." 
Another factor in his favor 
70m - Estimated number of Americans who describe themselves as Evangelicals who accept Jesus Christ as their personal saviour and who interpret the Bible as the direct word of God. 
23m - Number of Evangelicals who voted for Bush in 2000. 
50m- Number of voters in total who voted for Bush in 2000. 
46 - Percentage of voters who describe themselves as born-again Christians. 
5 - Number of states that do not use the word "evolution" in public school science courses. 
