Why very few actually Beat Bobby Flay. 
While it seems suspicious that Bobby wins so many of the competitions (leading many to think that the show is rigged), I have a feeling that Bobby's record is a product of selective casting. 
To explain: 
Remember when Anne Burrell challenged Bobby to a cheesecake battle, and won? 
Anne admitted it’s not her favorite dish, but she knows that Bobby sucks at desserts. 
Didn't you think to yourself at the time, "Why hasn't anyone else thought to do that?" 
I bet they have. 
I bet lots of people have. 
But to ensure that Bobby maintains a favorable batting average (and therefore looks good/stays happy on the show), the producers ask what chefs intend to cook as their signature dish in the audition process, and then only pick challengers who either a), are going to cook something that's already in Bobby's wheelhouse (how many times have we seen that happen?), or b), are going to cook something unique, but it's an irregular (or just plain stupid) version of that unique thing. 
Given that when confronted with a dish unfamiliar to him, Bobby always prepares a straightforward version, Bobby's earnest dish will usually win out over the platter of WHUT put out by the challenger. 
Don’t take my word for it, just watch the show. 
Usually when the challenger announces their dish you think to yourself, “oh Bobby’s screwed on this one,” but then immediately they cut to that interview where a smiling, imbecilic contender says, “My version of ________ has ... [some looney goddamn ingredient or technique that doesn’t belong in that dish].” 
And then they are oh-so-surprised at the end of the show when their inane concoction gets clobbered by Mr. Flay. 
BTW if you’re still doubtful, the producers HAVE to know the secret in advance. 
There’s no way they’re stopping production while a P.A. runs out to buy liver & onions. 
Which brings me back to Anne Burrell and her cheesecake. 
Celebrity chefs win against Bobby more often because they are who they are, and they can cook whatever they want to. 
The producers are just happy to have them on the show, and when Bobby loses to them it doesn't look as bad. 
This also illuminates why we so often see judges who themselves have a background in whatever the signature dish is. 
If the producers know what the challenger is going to cook, they can bring in judges who know how it's supposed to be cooked (and also importantly, know that it's not supposed to be cooked in whatever godforsaken manner than the challenger plans). 
One final thing: 
Though I’m inclined to believe that Bobby doesn’t actually know what the signature dish will be (even though the producers do), I wouldn’t be too terribly surprised if one of his assistants or sous-chefs has been told the dish and has “seeded” Bobby’s pantry with ideas. 
I’m sure it’s always well-stocked, but c’mon ... it can’t hold more than a fraction of what’s in the supermarket. 
So when Bobby looks and sees a bottle of, say, pomegranate molasses that’s not normally there, that’s his clue. 
“Oh yeah, a gastrique would work really well here.” 
This might seem a bit shady, but it doesn’t conflict directly with anything the show tells you about how it works. 
And that, my friends, is “reality” TV. 
The producers most definitely know. 
How else do they always find judges that are experts in that type of cuisine to judge the competition? 
While I do think Bobby Flay is actually that good (regardless of how cocky he can appear), I do agree with you that the competitor tends to be their own worst enemy. 
I feel like they always go overboard with their dish to try and wow the judges that they forget they simply just need to beat Bobby’s dish. 
Bobby takes the dish and just makes sure all the flavors and textures are there while the competitor tries to make the dish more unique and their own. 
It rarely works. 
I've always thought of Bobby Flay as an arrogant douche, but the tiramisu episode of BBF confirmed that he is a douche. 
In the middle of the tiramisu challenge, he decided to make 4 cheeseburgers from scratch just for fun to eat during. 
Fuck that. 
That was so disrespectful to the challenger pastry chef. 
so happy Amanda won though! 
love when I see people/places from Austin on FN :) 
From binge watching this show the past week, it’s clear that Bobby has advance knowledge of what he might face. 
Recall that Iron Chef also wasn’t a total surprise as to the featured ingredient. 
PS - Good analysis from OP. 
Bobby has never made anything that the competition challenges him too. 
He just makes a completely different dish and calls it a Southwest version of whatever he was supposed to make. 
bobby flay is an iron chef for a reason. 
he is going up against mostly home cooks or restaurant chefs. 
while i do agree that they do selective casting, which all shows do anyways for entertainment purposes, i do believe that he is that good. 
The producers know, but I don't think they're actively try and push the scales against Bobby. 
They want the competetors to cook their own signature dish because that's interesting - it's the premise of the show. 
The best that some "average" chef has to offer vs some side dish produced by a master chef. 
When you're a celebrity chef, you don't really have a single singular dish. 
You can cook everything, and maybe specialize in a few fields. 
So when master chefs go against Bobby, they can just whip out something they know they're probably better than him at. 
Emergency Callout: Customer crushed without important data! 
I just saw a post making mention of a similar situation which reminded me of this, and thought you guys might get a giggle/facepalm out of it. 
I do device repairs & technical support for quite a few families and businesses locally, and a couple of years back received an emergency call. 
The owner of one of the businesses I support had purchased a new phone and needed to know how to transfer important data to it from her old phone. 
I order a taxi, grab my laptop and head out. 
It turned out the "important data" was her Candy Crush progress, but she didn't let me know this until I arrived. 
I tried to make light of it - I wasn't particularly amused at having my evening interrupted for this - and deadly serious, she snapped back that it was important because she was trying to give up smoking and she needed it to relax during work breaks. 
I looked up how to do it (via Facebook account, it turns out; she had never logged in on the old phone), transferred the data over and charged her double time for the post-5pm call out. 
If they're paying emergency rates, I'd take a trivial job as a freebie compared to the usual stakes. 
Those tend to come with "We're losing $X,000 per hour while this is ongoing, fix it" levels of pressure. 
Yeah, the rates stopped me from being pissed off with her. 
Also grabbed a takeaway (takeout for our American readers) on the way home, which was a bonus. 
Gave me a kind of existential "Do I really mean that little to my customers?" thing when I got back, though. 
You mean exactly as much as you charge. 
Our firm raised our rates recently by 30% and lost 3-7% of our clients because we were "too expensive". 
We're now charging hourly for the miscellaneous things clients brought to us vs per project completed and the tiny little shitty projects we're doiong now has decreased. 
Yep, it's far wiser to be slightly over market rates when contracting. 
You don't want the people barely willing to pay market rates as customers, they are often unreasonably demanding and see normal rates as crazy high. 
The people who won't mind paying a little more can usually afford it fine, don't fret over it, and tend to treat you better. 
It's slightly uncomfortable to have conversations about new prices, but if you want to work less for more and be treated a little better - it's worth it. 
Woah, and I get a comment from the Bytewave. 
Hope all is well in your world, I feel like I know you so well despite never actually speaking to you! 
Hope you are still enjoying not working for the silly telecom, even though I miss the stories 
That's really heartwarming to read. 
I changed a bit since I wrote here, and my life has as well - but I do miss writing these stories, to be honest. 
They were really cathartic. 
I really appreciated all the support you guys gave me, I was getting bored with my work and sharing the highlights of it's history made it fun again for a time. 
Though I had reasons to take a long break, it wasn't lack of material per se ... 
So I'm still not saying I won't be back someday :) 
The answer is yes. 
Every time. 
Your time is ABSOLUTELY less important than someone else's. 
This is something that doesnt just affect techs and support work. 
Ive noticed certain kinds of people especially who ask for help with menial tasks just because they dont want to be bothered to do for themselves, which is something I was taught at a young age, to fend for myself. 
I feel like the two are connected psychologically and id love to see behavioral science explain this or make some solutions to the behavior. 
certain kinds of people especially who ask for help with menial tasks just because they dont want to be bothered to do for themselves, 
I work as an Automation Engineer and I totally relate to this. 
People just can't copy-paste stuff from one cell in an excel file to another cell because it can be automated. 
why don't you do that as well? 
Really, it takes quite an effort to not roll my eyes and tell them to move on because I've got more work prioritised than automating something that doesn't even take a wink. 
This is not really frequent though so hats off to you tech support guys. 
You've my respect. 
Relevant xkcd 
https://xkcd.com/1205/ 
Is it worth the time? 
Is it worth it to save 5 seconds x times per day to spend y minutes to automate it. 
I mean, even if its a regular thing, there are macros for that, and part of their job description probably includes the phrase 'experience with < insert x software here >. 
A huge part of my annoyance with normal everyday users is this idea they got somewhere that 'im not a computer person. I dont have the time to learn how to do that'. 
"Your job description begs to differ. 
You DO, in fact, have time to learn how to do that, or perhaps you should be in another line of business'. 
Be careful what you say in public 
My wife and I were at Panera eating breakfast and we noticed a lady be hind us talking on the phone very loudly. 
We couldn’t help over hearing her talk about a bill not being paid. 
We were a little annoyed but not a big deal because it was a public restaurant. 
We were not trying to listen but were shocked when she announced that she was about to read her card number. 
She then gave the card’s expiration date, security code, and her zip code. 
We clearly heard and if we were planning on stealing it she gave us plenty of notice to get a pen. 
Don’t read your personal information in public like this. 
You never know who is listening and who is writing stuff down. 
Wow I can't believe someone would blurt that out. 
Post in a week: 
"Help! 
someone somehow stole my credit card info! 
advice!?!?!" 
I worked at a call center and some people are really lax about their information and expect other to be lax about their info as well. 
I'd have conversations that would go like this: 
Me: 
"Ok, I'm ready for your card number." 
Customer: 
"Well, just use the one I used last time." 
Me: 
"I'm sorry, I don't have access to your card number." 
Customer: 
"I don't understand ... 
I know you have it right in front of you." 
Me: 
"I can only see the last four digits for security purposes." 
Customer: 
"Well I don't have my card on me right now ... 
I just don't understand why you can't use the card I used before." 
I had people cancel orders over this sort of thing and a few times I had to get a supervisor get their car number to place an order. 
You think people would be happy that your average call center advocate doesn't have access to all their credit card information. 
In the tradeoff between convenience and security, a vasty majority prefer convenience. 
They only chose security when something has already gone wrong. 
Info gets stolen: 
"Why do you have my stuff saved on file?!?" 
Can't order item because stuff isn't saved on file: 
"Why don't you save it you trash company??" 
Info gets stolen: 
“why can’t you secure the information I gave you, because security and convenience shouldn’t be mutually exclusive, you trash company that makes billions/yr and can afford to take it seriously!” 
Well unfortunately, some companies don't have very good security. 
Wish it was the case that you could easily have security and convenience though. 
Some companies don’t, but I think we see that the companies that can still don’t. 
So largely it appears less a “generally companies can’t afford it” and more a “generally companies aren’t prioritizing it, budget aside.” 
I’m looking at you, capital one. 
Or equifax. 
Or any of the massive thefts that basically affected a third or more of the country. 
Yeah sony could be thrown in there too with the big ps3 hack that happened back in the day, but I'm not sure if that was poor security, good hackers, or both. 
I'm totally with you though. 
If they can afford it, they should have it. 
Which conspiracy theory is so believable that it might be true? 
That your phones microphone is constantly "hot" and its listening for key words to target advertising. 
Most glaring instance where this happened to me was when I walked into a colleagues office. 
He had just gotten a standing desk, but one that goes on top of his existing desk rather than a standalone (pun?) Model. 
That's important to note. 
I said "Nice standing desk, when did you get that?". 
"Thanks, just today." He replied. 
That was literally all that was said about the desk. 
We talked about work related stuff and as I walked out and checked my phone, there was an ad on Facebook for that EXACT model of standing desk. 
I have never owned one, wanted one, or googled one before. 
Yet there it was on my feed. 
Tin foil hat be damned, they listen in. 
I've had this happen to me twice in the last month. 
Things I talked about with my daughter, one being hard boiled eggs, showed up on my feed hours later. 
There it was, an ad for a hard boiled egg cooker ... never googled anything about hard boiled eggs. 
Weird af. 
I can't remember the first one. 
When I said something to my daughter about it after the first time, she called me crazy. 
When I showed her the egg thing .... she said, well damn .... you might be right! 
This has happened to me multiple times! 
The time that really seals the deal for me is when my mother asked me to be a surrogate for her (which was heavily declined, as she doesn't need any more children to ruin) one day while over my house. 
It was either later on or the next day that I was telling my boyfriend about how ridiculous it was for her to be asking me to be a surrogate. 
Low and behold, scrolling through Facebook I get an ad that says "become a surrogate". 
Never in my life have I had an ad for surrogates until I said the words aloud. 
Creepy. 
Or, Facebook figured out that you work in an office which recently purchased a standing desk, through purely digital means. 
Most likely: your phone has connected to the wifi at your office at some point. 
Or, if you ever look at Facebook on your work computer, that would be enough as well. 
Presumably your coworker or your office's admin person ordered that standing desk online. 
They searched for it, ordered it, got an email confirmation, probably paid with a company credit card, got a delivery confirmation email, maybe he even googled assembly tips while setting it up. 
If you've ever accessed your Facebook through the IP address associated with your workplace (like by using their wifi), you've been connected to the purchase of that standing desk already. 
Even if you've never connected your phone to your work wifi or logged into your Facebook on your work computer, it's not that hard to associate you and your devices with your company, and then with purchases made in its office. 
If you've listed your job or checked into your workplace on Facebook ... even if you're friends with coworkers and one of them has done that ... if your LinkedIn has your cell number connected to sync contacts or reset a password ... 
There are a lot of ways to connect you to that standing desk besides a mic. 
That Natacha Jiatt was murdered by the Catholic Church for exposing a pedophile ring 
This is trending on r/conspiracy and r/outoftheloop right now, credit to u/uft8 for the summary 
Natacha Jaitt, a model/TV journalist, exposed a pedophile ring on live Argentinian TV a few months ago, after following cases over the last few years. 
She had claimed that she would not commit suicide in April of 2018 while investigating these rings, but was found on February 23, 2019 to be dead from suicide 
Another journalist she had accused of pedophilia on the airing, Luis Ventura, had uploaded an image of her dead body shortly after she killed herself on Twitter, and then promptly deleted it afterwards. 
To quote u/happycakeday1 She supposedly died from a cocaine overdose (heart failure/stroke). 
She had said that if she wound up dead, the people she had accused of rape (she was on trial, and it was powerful people) would be guilty ("I won't kill myself, I won't overdose and drown in a bathtub, I won't shoot myself") 
If she actually said all of that on the record then yeah, she was most likely murdered. 
Of course that doesn’t mean it was someone linked to the Catholic Church, and it also could’ve possibly been a coincidence with timing, but idk. 
Full credit to u/theNextVilliage for this one 
The "arms" on Tyrannosaurus Rex skeletons are backwards. 
They ought to be rotated 180 degrees. 
What good are these stubby little arms for? 
We have found out relatively recently that T-Rex have feathers. 
It is now an established fact, T-Rex where not covered in scales but in feathers, like a bird. 
Take the "arms" on a T-Rex and flip them around 180 degrees. 
Now you have wings like a ostrich. 
Here is an illustration of an ostrich skeleton. 
See the small "arms?" (wings): https://www.google.com/search?q=ostrich+skeleton&client=ms-android-verizon&prmd=isnv&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwj3qrmXudXcAhVuCDQIHaXvCnUQ_AUIESgB&biw=360&bih=560#imgrc=H_TL1bUwi9jryM: 
Now look at a Tyrannosaurus: https://www.google.com/search?client=ms-android-verizon&biw=360&bih=310&tbm=isch&sa=1&ei=gq9mW7j0MqCT0PEPldifkAg&q=tyrannosaurus+rex+skeleton&oq=tyrannosaurus+rex+skele&gs_l=mobile-gws-wiz-img.1.0.0l5.2133.2740..3760...0.0..0.143.727.1j5......0....1.........0i67.16eeq_FMY8w#imgrc=D-fnseX2MxU_tM: 
We used to think of almost all "dinasaurs" as "lizard-like," in fact the name means "terrible lizard." 
Now we know that many different animals that we think of as "dinosaurs" are more bird-like than lizard-like. 
XKCD comic below illustrates this nicely. 
https://skeptics.stackexchange.com/questions/16369/is-t-rex-more-similar-to-sparrows-than-to-stegosaurus 
Tyrannosaurus Rex had wings. 
Not big wings to fly with, but wings that were perhaps somthing like that of an ostrich, cassowary, or emu, although likely much smaller in proportion to their body. 
Ostriches use their wings in mating rituals, to make themselves appear larger, and to signal and communicate, perhaps T-Rex used theirs for some similar purpose. 
They did not have useless stubby little arms. 
This just blew my mind, I hope this catches steam. 
CMV: We should keep assuming others’ gender and pronouns, but be respectful if corrected 
Democratic society operates according to “majority rule, minority rights.” 
We should strive for equality, but also practicality. 
Thus, our current gender system should only be tweaked, not radically changed. 
Societal norms are set by the majority. 
Since most people are cisgender (and heterosexual), norms reflect that. 
This isn’t inherently an issue. 
It’s only when we don’t tolerate deviation from norms that it becomes a problem. 
It’s neither necessary, possible, nor desirable to erase all gender norms, since they are willingly followed by most. 
The vast majority of people, cis or trans, identify as male or female, and have an appearance that matches. 
This makes our binary gender assumption norms useful. 
Most people want their gender assumed off appearance or else don’t care; it’s only a very few whose appearance doesn’t match gender, or identify as a non-binary gender. 
Society already accommodates situations like this. 
We provide wheelchair ramps, nut-free foods, and gender neutral bathrooms on top of the stairs, PB&J, and gendered bathrooms that most people use. 
You might have to ask someone or travel a bit more to be accommodated, but society has deemed this small extra effort acceptable, because very few people need to be accommodated. 
It’s thus reasonable to expect the individual to request certain pronouns if it’s important to them. 
Society recognizes disabilities, allergies, and even hard to pronounce names as legitimate. 
The root issue is that non-conforming genders aren’t always recognized as legitimate, and harassment of the group occurs. 
No one says to a person who says they have an allergy “Really? You don’t look like you have an allergy?” 
We all need to be educated and tolerant towards other pronouns and genders, and not tolerate harassment of this group. 
Basically, recognize your assumptions aren’t always correct, and be gracious if you’re wrong. 
It’s a waste of time and effort to make everyone ask or introduce pronouns or gender, because most people don’t care. 
You should feel free to do this if you want to, but otherwise, you have to live with reasonable assumptions. 
This solution is much more practical, and much more likely to be implemented and accepted by everyone. 
In essence, make an assumption, if you find out otherwise, go with it. 
This isn’t difficult or a big deal. 
As far as ethics and economics are concerned, this solution is the best one. 
CMV, I’d be glad to discuss parts of the solution you take issue with in more detail 
I generally agree with this, but it is context sensitive. 
If you are at a venue where you are asked to introduce yourself and your pronouns, it is churlish to refuse to do so, AND in that context it’s best to ask rather that assume. 
Since that kind of venue is fairly rare, it is not an unusual burden to ‘go with the flow’. 
I organize events professionally, and have never included as part of introductions. 
The number of people who are uncomfortable with the practice exceeds the number of people who prefer asking. 
In issues of human decency ‘majority rules’ is not the rule of thumb. 
But I do think asking for pronouns / not assuming gender will remain a fairly fringe activity that you find in a few colleges, churches, support groups and therapy contexts and not much outside of that. 
I would agree wholeheartedly that in certain contexts, this makes sense. 
I think the key is that you’d be informed about it, like if you’re going to an LBGT or transgender event, obviously you might want to be more careful. 
If everyone is expected to introduce their pronouns in the venue, then you may as well follow suit. 
As I’ve said, though, I don’t think it would be best to apply this idea society-wide though. 
Exactly. 
There’s a time and a place for everything and a majority of people use pronouns based on their assigned gender. 
Gender dysphoria is not a common thing but knowing when you will encounter a higher concentration of people who are transgender should be key in determining your behavior. 
Classic “know your audience” type of thing. 
I can’t even remember names of people I meet. 
I guess I’d have to take a notebook to such an event to remember names and pronouns. 
Oh and a Polaroid camera to remember who they belong to lol. 
I think if you’re at a place where people provide preferred pronouns at introduction you’re skipping the part that necessitates assumption. 
I've been more or less reprimanded in a Starbucks for a "he got my order", and I easily have a hundred encounters a week where I reasonably have ZERO time to do that dance. 
Doing it at all should be by special request unless there is a real reason to believe you are in a situation that should reasonable expect it. 
Life’s a lot better when you take comments like that in a ‘oh ok’ calm way rather than as a slap. 
Look at it this way, its 5 seconds of your life,but probably a multiple times a day thing that gender-ambiguous-looking woman at Starbucks. 
Plus the other hundred time a week where she’s out in the world just like you. 
Introverts of Reddit, what are the most annoying things extroverts do? 
Introverts of Reddit, what are the most annoying things extroverts do? 
Try to force you to be extroverted 
Every self-help article about how to date when you are an introvert can be summarized as "be an extrovert". 
Am introvert, have successfully dated. 
It of course helps to be attractive, but the other thing that really works for me, is just to accept that dating takes effort, and will tire me out even if I have a good time. 
And that's okay. 
You don't go to the gym and expect not to be tired afterwards, but that doesn't mean that you can't enjoy working out 
Agreed - am a serious introvert, but my life would be way less fullfilling and way less rich with great life experiences in the realm of friends, partying, girls, etc if I hadn't made a conscious effort get good at behaving in a more extroverted manner enough of the time to have the experiences I want to be a part of my life. 
Obviously different people have different priorities, and it isn't something that will work or be possible for everyone. 
But I hate to think of someone just being like, "I'm an introvert, and therefore I need to accept that I will never have the experience of being a charismatic fun person who is good with people and the opposite sex.", and not even trying to make those things happen, if that is something they would like in their life. 
In terms of dating, it is nice to find someone, as I have been fortunate enough to, who is on the same page in terms of being an introvert, who also likes to sometimes be social, party, etc. 
But I wouldn't have found that person if at the time that we met I hadn't been making a real effort to be outgoing and fun and so on. 
I think the big thing is people assume introvert = poor people skills. 
There are a lot of introverts that are super fun and cool people that can talk and do whatever and plenty of extroverts that are awkard and get anxious in social situations. 
The difference is wether you become drained or energized when doing it 
To be fair, as far as my own experience goes, that assumption is not entirely without merits. 
People skills are skills, learned and maintained through use - be introverted enough that you don't do either of these and at some point your social skills are probably going to suffer. 
Obviously not true for every introvert but I feel like the assumption that every introvert is secretly socially awesome, funny and overall the life of the party but just doesn't want to right now can be damaging as well. 
Source: Am awkward introvert redditor. 
Introverts are different between themselves. 
For example I consider myself an introvert with "short range extroversion capabilities". 
I can go to a party, have fun while there, can be talkative and likeable. 
New people often get the idea I'm kinda soul of the party because of my jokes, etc. 
That being said, I'm usually the first one to leave any party (extremely rarely go anywhere for longer than 3-4 hours), I hate sleepovers, prefering to drive home alone at night for two hours if needed, and I don't want another party for a month or two. 
At work I have luck to sit alone in my office (two colleagues of mine took maternity leave and they won't return in more than a year; it's not the US). 
Other colleagues often disturb visit me to ask if it's not sad for me to sit alone. 
No, God, it's fantastic. 
My battery depends on how I feel overall but that usually means I can do 10mins in the kitchen with my roommates before I'm tapped, or I can spend a night with 5 people in a smallish room while crushing them in gaming for a few hours. 
Both of those will drain me, but the charging for both also highly depend on I feel again. 
The other night I was able to spend 2 hrs just chilling and talking with the roommates and some guests they had over, 
I knew my battery was close to being dead but I forced myself past my limit because one of the guests is attractive and I wanted a chance to flirt. 
Regretting it still, because even though it's been like two days I don't feel there is a healthy enough charge to engage with people again. 
That's true 
theres definitely a trend. 
Someone isn't gonna want to do something that drains them and someone loves to do something that energizes them. 
Plus the people skill part is spot on 
The Hiring Process Vol. 3 / Polygraph and Deception Detection Devices 
Polygraph and other deception detection devices. 
First, this is not me telling you how to beat polygraph (poly.) 
When taking the test, it is common for the examiner to ask if you have researched how to pass the poly deceptively. 
So, if you read this, understand that I am not going to tell you how to beat the test. 
It is also worth mentioning that doing something like that is, generally, a bad idea. 
Second, let’s just get something out of the way. 
A polygraph is not admissible in criminal court, and for good reason. 
It is not going to give us specific information. 
There have been people who have lied and not shown deception. 
There are some people who showed deception, who were not necessarily lying. 
Having said that, it is still a great tool for verifying truthfulness, and I’m a big fan of using it in this kind of a process. 
Hopefully I can explain to you why that happens here. 
All of these Deception Detection Devices (DDD) work on a basic principal. 
Your body has involuntary and automatic responses to lying. 
Basically, you are afraid of getting caught. 
No matter how little, there is still a bit of everyone that hopes we don’t get caught. 
The fact that you’re hooked up to the machine really tends to amplify this. 
These machines are actually fear detectors. 
They measure your body’s reaction to fear, like your heart rate increasing or changing just to name one. 
So how does a truthful person show deception? 
Let me show you. 
20 years ago, an applicant … let’s call him Joe … was out with friends at a bar. 
While there he was approached by a prostitute who offered him her services. 
Joe, being the fine and upstanding individual he is, turned her down. 
On his background paperwork he indicated that he had never paid anyone for sex and he has never sought to pay anyone for sex … 
both are true. 
However, Joe has a flash of a thought from that night when the examiner asks him if he has paid for sex. 
His body, automatically, is afraid that he should have said something. 
The machine will pick that reaction up. 
The reason this isn't scientific is because just because it shows deception on a particular subject, doesn't mean you’re lying … 
it means that there is usually more to that story. 
To combat this, before you take the poly you will talk with the examiner and go over every question that is on the exam. 
That way you can address any gray areas. 
You may have answered a question in your background with a “no” answer, but there is a “comma, but” to it though … if you know what I mean. 
Make sure that you address any of these areas with the background investigator and with the polygraph examiner before taking the test. 
That way, you’ll feel that it’s been addressed and it is much more likely to be a non-issue. 
Third, please know that common sense is still very much on the table. 
Have you seen the scene from Ocean’s Eleven where the “smart guy” is undergoing a polygraph so he can get the casino job? 
They put a thumb tack in his shoe so that when he could poke his foot on the truthful answers and not on the lies. 
That way he was consistent through the exam. 
He was always stressed. 
The examiner even makes the comment that “man to look at him, I would swear he’s being deceptive.” 
Well, first … the thumb tack trick doesn't work … 
don’t try it. 
You’ll end up with a hurt foot, and deception everywhere. 
Second, the human element will be sure to include any potential signs of deception. 
Again, it is generally a bad idea to try and determine how to beat this test. 
Don’t do it, just be honest through the process. 
Each step is there for a reason. 
Finally, and most importantly, you should know that everyone is intimidated by this step in the process. 
You don’t need to worry about nervousness tripping the machine or giving you a false indication of deception. 
If it did that just because people were nervous, then no one would ever pass these tests. 
The poly tends to be the part of the process that everyone dreads … and that really shouldn't be the case. 
You have already answered every question during your background investigation that they are going to ask you on the polygraph. 
Be honest and thorough during that portion of the process and you’ll be fine. 
I hope this has illuminated the polygraph a bit. 
It’s one of the more intimidating portions of the process, I understand this. 
It should be the easiest part though. 
You've already answered these questions, some of them several times. 
This should just be about verifying what we already know. 
Thank you for taking the time to read this, should you have any questions feel free to PM me. 
I’m also taking requests for the next edition in this series. 
I was leaning towards interviews, but that may require some separation as there are several formats you’ll see in this kind of a process. 
I've also seen questions about the psychological evals before too. 
How do you guys interpret the importance of racial issues seen in America? 
Hey, guys! 
As an American, we obviously learn about US history to a much greater extent than I imagine any of you guys would in school. 
Along with knowing our history, we also have grown up in the culture that’s resulted from nearly 250 years of our country’s existence and from far more many years before our revolution. 
Naturally, we see the racial issues and tensions occurring today as a very logical conclusion, personal to each individual, and as intense in the realm of politics. 
So, my questions are: 
(1) How do different European countries feel/interpret our seemingly, from an outsider’s point of view, obsession with race? 
Do many people not understand why? 
(2) Do many people from your country not know anything about our very important domestic historical events/movements (e.g. our kind of slavery, the Civil War, the Reconstruction Era, the Golden Age of Racism in the 1920s + the KKK, Jim Crow + redlining, the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, and Black Lives Matter + criminal justice reform today, etc.)? 
(3) What are your guys’ general thoughts when you hear about our outrage over a racial issue today? 
US society does seem quite obsessed with race, and while the very concept of dividing people into races is repulsive to me, I understand why this is a big deal in the US - and I understand why European views on the issue are usually too simplistic. 
I'm pretty sure that most people here only have a very vague idea of US history in this regard. 
Slavery is widely known, so is the KKK (albeit superficially), but I'm quite sure most people have no idea what Jim Crow laws are, or that official segregation continued into the 1960s, and most other race-related history. 
It definitely looks to me like American society as a whole isn't doing a good job of moving past these issues, and that the racial division is even encouraged at some level, but I am not as presumption as to preach solutions, having never lived in the US, let alone as a racial minority. 
I find it annoying when Americans try to apply US racial concepts to Europe, and thus make absurd statements, so it's only fair for me to admit my limited understanding of the subject, even if I consider myself to know US history better than 90% of Europeans. 
"sn't doing a good job of moving past these issues" 
Is that entirely true, though? 
The Civil Rights movement ended 50 years ago, and there's been a black president since then. 
There's still tons of problems, but it's massively improved. 
To be a minority in the USA today is a night and day difference to what it was during my grandparents' time. 
It's not even close to what segregation was. 
(1) Its unreal. 
I can’t really imagine being asked which race I am to fill out a college application form or something like that. 
Affirmative action here is very rare, and very often illegal. 
(2) More or less we know what happened. 
(3) Its understandable, since no one ever admitted that a lot of American freedom and prosperity comes from crimes against humanity 
Your last point is a little complicated. 
The US's wealth and power also comes from no actions of it's own, but it's geographical location in the world. 
We are a considerably lucky country, with only two neighbors that are completely non hostile, and two massive oceans on either side of us. 
We were always going to have advantages as a newly independent country the moment colonialist rule lost it's control here. 
It's not as simple as "All of USA's achievements come from exploitation" 
Is this ring? 
http://vocaroo.com/i/s1tDCvWpykHC 
Is that ring I'm hearing? 
I feel I sang quite well here, but then it's often hard to find back to this voice. 
Are you an opera singer? 
Why are you concerned about "ring"? 
I've been instructed to try developing it. 
I am trying to develop a generally pleasant voice, I have no clear idea about style. 
Ring is one of those things, IMO, that some dweeb voice teacher heard sitting in an audience from a real opera singer. 
He heard a "ring" and decided to make it into a technique. 
First of all the term is poorly defined. 
Does it mean twang? 
Singer formant? 
Which harmonic? 
Chiaroscuro? 
Second of all you're not an opera singer! 
Ring is characteristic of operatic voices. 
Have you ever heard a contemporary pop or rock singer with a "ring" in their voice? 
No! 
I would just stop worrying about trying to do shit which is not relevant to the style you're trying to learn. 
Focus on singing whatever it is you want to sing ... not on singing opera! 
Alright. 
Do you notice anything I should work on in particular? 
Is it possible from just a recording? 
How much do you practice? =p. 
How many days a week and hour many hours? 
Whenever I have the apartment to myself. 
Usually twenty - thirty minutes. 
Couple times a week I get several sessions that are longer. 
Do more practicing. 
Gotta get over not wanting to practice when people are around =p. 
That's really the only proven way to get results. 
Practice. 
If you want a ring ... I believe you have to use a strong chest dominant sound. 
Try an EE vowel in the comfortable area of your voice. 
Like right here. 
You have to do these alternate vowels right here in this ipa chart. 
so instead of 'i' it'd be 'Y' (ee as in sweet = i). 
a -> ɒ. 
If you try to sound like an opera singer, it'll just come to you I guess (if you have the ear). 
Won't really happen if you try to sound like a pop singer unless you're like Josh Groban, which many say he's a popera singer. 
lol 
Is there a particular specific example or explaination your can give on the type of' ring' you are referring to? 
Are you referring to the slight ping in certain people's voices that give it a clarity or you talking about the slight' oomph' in certain people's voices? 
Either way, yeah i think it is a pretty decent sounding voice. 
You mentioned that your teacher is asking you to open the throat and i would like to know what he/she said to instruct you to open the throat. 
What i am noticing is that the vowel is tending towards the 'pushed' and spread side possibly from a slight over emphasis on the opening of the throat. 
Here is the key, you need to both have an open / relaxed throat with a clear sound. 
A clear sound being a sound with clarity and focus or some would term to as 'ping'. 
One way you can do it is pretty simple. 
Simply do 2 sets of scales on the same key. 
The do-mi-re-fa-mi-so-fa-re-mi-do-re-ti-do(the one you do on the recording). 
Do it twice. 
First on a hum/ng sound and then on the second scale open the vowel in either an 'EE' or an 'Ah'. 
Do either the hum or the 'ng'. 
Whichever is more comfortable for you. 
The 'ng' is basically a sustained 'ng' pronunciation as in the word 'sing' or 'ring'. 
Some also would call this an open hum. 
Then on the hum/ng, try to find a clear buzzing sensation in the front of your face and at the lips if you are doing a hum. 
Do not force the sensation, focus on simply humming and the sensation should materialize by itself. 
Then simply try to keep this same clarity or 'buzz' when you open the mouth into the EE/AH vowel. 
You may need to record yourself while doing this. 
Many a times i have notice that people can produce a relatively focused and clean hum/ng. 
But when they open the mouth to produce a vowel, the tone quality drastically changes into something way less focused and clear. 
So when you record yourself, see if you can produce the cleanest most 'forward' sound on the hum/ng and see that if you open to the vowel, does the tone quality drastically change. 
The goal is to keep the tone quality relatively consistent. 
Remember that you are trying to keep the same clarity and focus, different people sound different when the open the hum depending on the physiology of the vocal tract and cords. 
So it is more important to focus on the forward clarity so as to not make the sound overly nasal or squeezed. 
Hope this helped! 
Social Requirements? 
TL;DR: I'm 36, married, and introvert. 
I'm going into my second year of a PhD program, and I've found myself being subjected to numerous social things that I feel obligated to contend with, primarily due to social pressure - club meetings, happy hours, BBQs, etc. 
Long story short, I'm older, and would rather spend my time at home with a video game than basically any of the people in my department, save very few (who I have no problem hanging out with outside of the academic setting). 
Does anyone else deal with this? 
Does the guilt get to you? 
I'm 23, single, and an introvert. 
I try to show up every once in a while to remind people that I exist but I don't go to most parties and happy hours. 
You have the great excuse of a family to go home to. 
Use it! 
I think it's important to attend some of these engagements. 
You never know who you might meet or what you may miss. 
I too am an older grad student and am engaged. 
Socially, I have no reason to attend these events. 
I remind my fiancé that it is imperative to attend at least a few a year for those purpose of networking and reminding people I exist. 
Remember, at present your cohort are your fellow students ...in the future they could be your coworkers or colleagues in a professional setting. 
Totally agree (though I'm very social and also organize a lot of these kinds of events). 
People who don't attend departmental events at all or put in face time can miss out on a lot of opportunities. 
I'm in a position where I am often asked to recommend fellow students for awards, grant opportunities, jobs, and publishing opportunities. 
If I only see you once a year and I don't know or trust you, I won't be recommending you for anything. 
I imagine it's the same for faculty. 
If people don't see you often enough to build a relationship, they aren't going to go out of their way to help you succeed. 
I agree with this. 
And making appearances at things like department BBQs and club meetings will probably earn you points with your adviser/other faculty. 
You don't have to be friends with everyone but you should probably make an effort to get to know people and make connections. 
edit: Just to build on this. 
Don't feel guilty about not going to something. 
If it's not important to you, it's not important to you. 
Just don't feel obligated to every single meeting, BBQ, and happy hour. 
I think it’s important to go to SOME events in the name of collegiality, but you are under no obligation to go to all of them or feel guilty for declining things like happy hours. 
Grad school can be a very isolating experience, so after work events are good for people without local support networks (a girl in my program told me last week that she didn’t talk to a single person over that weekend) but are not required. 
I make sure to put in an appearance at the major events (back to school reception, holiday party, end of year reception) but don’t let people guilt me into other things. 
“Thanks for inviting me, but I have other plans” is all you need. 
Then don’t go. 
There’s no shame in not participating. 
No, but there are downsides, like not building a network. 
Unless you are in a department full of extroverts that shame you for this 
Plus networking is a thing. 
Getting in appearances with professors that might hold job opportunities is vital depending on your field. 
Though balance is key. 
You don't have to go to all of the socials. 
Some of them are for us lonely, single extroverts that need a social life. 
Focus on club meetings that will look good on your CV and happy hours that have important professionals attending. 
Yeah why do I fave the feeling mist profs can’t help u get a job through their connections 
I say this as a pretty social member of a pretty social dept - don't burn bridges, but don't go if you don't want to! 
I think a lot of social events help new students find their friends, and help maintain a wide network of camaraderie and support. 
If you don't feel like you need those, then stay friendly with people but don't feel the need to attend. 
Maybe go to the particularly big events and a thing or two at the beginning of the semester to meet the new students (considering that your existing friends may graduate before you!) and call that good. 
Well at least you're married and have someone who gets you to hang out with. 
I'm 30, also going into my second yr and I've already passed on several invites. 
I just straight up tell them I'm going home if asked or ignore the invite completely. 
I feel like everybody got to know me last year and I'm a pleasant enough coworker to be around but there was no real connection there and tbh I think everyone is okay with it. 
I'm not particularly special so I doubt I'm missed that much lol, so I don't feel quilty. 
The big events I might go to like end of summer BBQ, but like coffee and lunch and happy hour (I hate beer) I MIA and everyone seems cool with it. 
Weird, I don't remember writing this post ... 
I'm the same way! 
You aren't under any obligation to attend social events, but don't completely write them off either. 
No one goes to every event but find a timeline that fits with your other obligations and see if you can make it to one a month or something like that. 
I went into my program thinking of the degree as the end goal, but there is a lot more to gain from graduate school than more letters after your name. 
Socializing can help you get more out of your program, have friends to talk about your research with who actually care and will be interested in talking out complex points you're stuck on. 
These are also people who can let you know about fellowships, conferences etc. that will enhance your experience. 
Overall you have to find a balance that works for you but a PhD comes with a huge opportunity cost to the rest of your life regardless, so it might be worth it to look at these events and your peers as part of what you're getting out of your program. 
We know shit-all about space 
I think any discussion about space or aliens is pointless until people start discussing nasa's fakery but it appears a lot of people don't want to go into it. 
Logically, in a incredibly vast universe, it makes sense that humans aren't the only sentient beings out there. 
The problem with this is that I don't know if that's what we're working with anymore, the entire conception of distant suns, planets, black -holes, alien life. 
It's all suspect because we get all our news and information from a small group of people and these people are liars. 
I watched 'The Martian' a few days ago, how much of it actually corresponds to the realities of space and space travel? 
When we see an astronaut in the iss, is there really someone in a craft up there or is it all created in a studio somewhere? 
One thing we do know is that they can simulate the appearance of weightlessness since at least 1995. 
Just watch the apollo 13 movie. 
Anyone who bothers to actually look into's the details of nasa's claims will realize they never went to the moon, let alone 6 times. 
During Apollo there's a video of astronauts supposedly in space taking a video of the earth, yet the video (that goes on recording after they think its over) reveals that they used cardboard to block the windows to create the illusion that they were far away and were probably only in low earth orbit. 
The actual structure of the iss itself looks different in different nasa pictures, how is this possible? 
There's abundant evidence that they faked the challenger disaster. 
Why? 
There are videos where women astronauts have weird puffy hair (which shouldn't happen) in the iss when their hair doesn't act in such a way on zero gravity planes. 
There are videos of astronauts supposedly in space when suddenly a bubble leaves their helmet. 
The amount of fakery is overwhelming, how does nasa even have a shred of credibility left? 
Does hubble even actually exist? 
tldr: 
We get all our information about space from space agencies and hollywood (they've always worked together) 
Space agencies lie all the time, about everything 
How can we claim to know anything if #2 is true? 
Conclusion = we know shit-all about space 
We'll never get anywhere as a species as long as humanity continues to believe nasa are legitimate scientists 
I might even say "we know all-shit about space". o_o 
Talk about accepting stuff on faith? 
With weak evidence? 
May as well be a Space Religion, considering how much of the stuff any of us have actually experienced outside of movies/media ... which is ZERO. 
No, really, if anyone here has an actual story of experiencing Space, I'd love to hear it. 
Pretty sure we all get to say it's second-hand experience, at best. 
I don't have that kind of faith in things I can't experience for myself. 
Sounds frightful (froughtful). 
EDIT: 
Further, my oldest living friend (let's call him Whelp Allgood), who I can talk to about anything -- is a space lover. 
He dreams of piloting ships among the stars. 
I had the unfortunate moment of making him realize that he had never experienced anything of the sort outside of movies, games, 'news reports', and the like. 
I pointed out that so much of the rest of this world was purposely confuggulated to us from birth -- how can one possibly accept this on faith? 
I felt the crushing force I had unintentionally sprung on him. :/ 
But Truth. 
P. S. Intellectual dishonesty is so not cute. 
Good luck with your religion. :) 
The earth is definately flat. 
Look at all the proofs. 
It's their best kept secret. 
One of the reasons they said the earth was a sphere was because you can see ships go over the horizon and this was disproven. 
Same with distant city scapes. 
It's bullshit. 
All of it. 
It's bullshit. 
All of it. 
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=hlJmBe1eeQA 
When this sphere earth was postulated there was no tech to send a weather baloon with a cam. 
Now there is. 
I am devoutly anti-ismist. 
I expect to disappear in a puff of smoke any moment. 
TIFU by throwing my steak out a window 
Last night, my wife's boss from her brand new job invited us over for dinner. 
On the drive over, my wife reiterated many times to me just how important it was to make a good impression. 
I scoffed and arrogantly informed my silly wife that I always make good impressions. 
My wife's boss is a single lady in her fifties, so it was just the three of us. 
We chitchatted over drinks and salads and seemed to really be hitting it off. 
She laughed at my well-timed, perfectly-appropriate jokes and my wife seemed pleased. 
Soon she brought out the main course, a nice big juicy steak for each of us. 
As I began to cut into my steak, I was discouraged to discover how under cooked this steak was. 
Now, I've had my fair share of rare steak. 
I prefer medium, but I can handle rare. 
This was several-minutes-on-a-hot-grill short of rare. 
I probably could've resuscitated the cow had I tried. 
Instead, I sat there fidgeting with my knife and fork, worrying about how I was going to get away with not eating this steak. 
Claim vegan-ism? 
No, I'd already feigned great enthusiasm upon seeing the steak. 
Just then, our hostess excused herself to the kitchen to take care of some dessert preparations. 
As I looked across the fancy dining room table at the open window of this 3rd story apartment ... a cartoon light bulb appeared over my head. 
I knew I had to be decisive, realizing that she could return at any moment. 
I committed. 
I grabbed the steak with my hand, gently shook off the juice and executed a perfect throw right through the center of the open window. 
Here's the big time FU. 
The window wasn't open. 
It was the cleanest fricking window you've ever seen in your life. 
That is, until my mostly raw slab of steak slammed up against it and slowly slid down leaving a trail of bloody juice in its wake. 
My wife - who's steak was a nice medium rare and was unaware of my predicament - turned, jaw dropped, and stared at me like I was an alien from another planet. 
This look then slowly morphed into more of a there-is-no-place-on-this-planet-you-can-ever-hide-from-me expression of demonic anger. 
My wife's boss heard the thud of the steak-on-window impact and came quickly. 
She took in the scene, the steak sitting on the window sill, the blood trail, my empty plate, and then gave me an inquisitive, puzzled look. 
I just didn't know what to say. 
It felt like a minute of silence, but was probably 3 or 4 seconds. 
Finally, the best I could manage was "I ... I'm so sorry. 
I am such a clutz ... 
I don't know ... 
I was just cutting it .. 
and ... it ... ... it slipped ... just ask my wife, I really am a clutz ... right honey? 
... (no help coming from that direction) ... 
I will clean this up ... 
I can't believe this ... 
I am so sorry" etc ... etc ... 
Both women continued to stare at me like I had escaped from the loony bin, as I smeared the blood around the window with my cloth napkin, dusted off the steak, and continued to mutter my incoherent explanation. 
I knew no one was buying the story. 
I knew what I had to do. 
I sheepishly returned to my seat and proceeded to eat every bite of that disgusting, cold, chewy, bloody, raw steak. 
I remained pretty quiet the rest of the evening. 
My wife's only two words to me since the incident are "I'm fine". 
Stroke Survivors: how "aware" were you just after you stabilized and were unable to speak? 
My 35 year old cousin just had a stroke and is still in recovery. 
How much did you perceive your surroundings (hospital) and how was your internal monologue? 
I'm about to go visit and would like to know the best way to communicate with her if it's helpful. 
I know each case is different, but wanted to know what the range of experiences are. 
I internally 'knew' what was going on (after the initial hours of just being a complete mess), but the internal monologue was very simplistic -- it was an understanding and acknowledgment of my surroundings and what was going on, but also a realization that my consciousness was traumatically altered. 
It was a mess of thoughts, but the acute period was mostly just sleeping and just acknowledging major changes ("Oh, I guess I can't walk anymore," and "Oh, I guess I'll have to learn how to write left-handed now") but there wasn't much going on. 
Best, /MurrayStreet 
I could always speak to some degree, sometimes it was jibberish but I could speak ... so not sure how useful my experience is for you. 
I had my stroke at 31, so pretty close age wise. 
Compared to many here my stroke was not so severe, I recovered fully & quickly. 
I felt like I was present, but in hindsight I wasn't nearly as with it as I felt internally at the time. 
I thought I was participating in conversation with my family, but my husband tells me I just kind of laid there and laughed or nodded my head ... did not contribute and when I tried it didn't make sense. 
I felt like I was speaking normally and couldn't understand why people would look at me funny or not understand, at least until I was prompted to say certain words and was unable to say them at all ... then I somewhat accepted it. 
I remember bits and pieces of the conversation, my brother talking to the nurse about some tool they used to keep an eye on ICP, etc. 
I knew where I was, but I didn't feel like I should be there. 
I always knew my husband was there and only left when other family stayed with me. 
I really appreciated that. 
I just got back from visiting and it seems like my cousin's experience has a lot in common with yours. 
In less than a week, she can walk on her own, and apparently can play Wii. 
She seems to recognize most people, although she couldn't identify herself in a picture. :-( 
Her vocabulary is limited but we are able to communicate. 
A lot of my family have young children so they brought in children's books and are reading them to her. 
Is that a good start, or should we just grab a Jane Austen and read that to her? 
We'll definitely be taking our cues from the speech therapists for re-teaching her language but to entertain and stimulate should we raise the reading level? 
The speech therapists and her doctor(s) would probably have the best ideas based on her progress but if it seems like she follows the children's books I would just bump it up gradually by trying middle readers and young adult. 
I was able to understand people the entire time, but there is no way I could really keep up with a novel on the level of Jane Austen. 
I watched movies more than I read/was read to, and pretty simple movies at that so it didn't really matter if I followed every little thing. 
It sounds like she is making a lot of progress, honestly just being there to encourage and support her is the best thing and it sounds like she is getting a lot of that. 
I'll be wishing her the best. 
I didn't have any aphasia but I was overwhelmed and exhausted, in no position to judge just how bad the situation actually was. 
The two things that helped the most were being told that I could get my life back with a lot of hard work in rehab. 
I suspect my attention span was noticeably shorter at that point and I had not yet realized that I wasn't seeing everything on the left side. 
After being transferred to the rehab hospital, yet another strange medical place and bed with disturbing noises and fall alarms I remember wanting to cry when the sweet PT held my shoulder without indicating I was damaged goods and assured me she was on my side and there to help me get what I wanted. 
(note: 
Several stroke survivors have mentioned being a little more emotional after the stroke, for me things snuck up and hit me in the feels harder than expected.) 
Assurance, quiet optimism and positive energy should all help with your Cousin, thank you for helping her and good luck & recovery to her. 
Absolutely. 
The film Snyder showed the studio execs in mid 2015 was without a doubt the original cut. 
The 3 hr UE. 
I guess management needed to be a part of the production from its scripting stages. 
Snyder made the film he wanted to make. 
He did his job, but he had no oversight, but even he was aware that a 3 hr cut isnt necessarily what the studio wants. 
The studio should ve just released the UE. 
It probably would've made less with the decrease in number of showings, but it would've been a more respected film, and that carries more wait in the end. 
But the movie was uneven in its delivery of action sequences. 
It was mostly contained to the last act. 
Having a 2 hour set up of character building and dialogue isn't the best strategy when marketing to GA. 
They want to be entertained. 
WB probably saw this and wanted to get to the action much quicker, even though they wouldnt' have had to do that had there been multiple action sequences throughout the entire film. 
But all we got in the first 2 hrs was the short scene of Superman in Africa, Knightmare Batman, Batmobile scene, and then the non-stop 3rd hour. 
This film needed clear work from the very beginning. 
The "filmmaker-driven" approach can still work as long as the studios create a sort of minimal blueprint for the director that sort of matches up with what "entertains" a general audience. 
