After visa snags, all-girl Afghan team honored for 'courageous achievement' at international robotics competition 
Friday, July 21, 2017 
A group of Afghan teenagers was awarded a silver medal for "courageous achievement" on Tuesday in the FIRST Global Challenge Robot Olympics in the Daughters of the American Revolution Constitution Hall in Washington D.C. 
The six - member Afghan team, which consists entirely of girls, had been denied visas to enter the United States until last week, drawing notice from critics of U.S. President Donald Trump's policies regarding Muslims traveling to the U.S. 
The President later personally took action to allow the team into the country. 
According to Afghan Ambassador to the United States Hamdullah Mohib, the participation of this team in this science competition shows progress in Afghanistan's response to nearly two decades of military conflict. 
The first FIRST Global robotics competition was held this week in Washington D.C. 
Image: United States Navy. 
The FIRST Global competition (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technlogy) was founded by Dean Kamen to encourage interest in applied science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in young people. 
This year's theme was water security. 
For the contest, the robots were required to recognize, pick up, carry, and deposit balls colored blue and orange to represent water and pollution, respectively. 
Teams from different countries were arranged in groups of three, and groups faced off in pairs. 
The group whose three robots collectively earned the most points won that match. 
According to the Afghan team's coach, Alireza Mehraban, in their first matchup, the Afghan team's robot, named "Better Idea of Afghan Girls," scored one or two points for the three-nation alliance with the Gabonese and Estonian teams. 
This year, the European team won the competition overall, with the silver medal going to Poland and the bronze to Armenia. 
"We are so interested because we find a big chance to show the talent and ability of Afghans," team member Rodaba Noori told the press, "to show that Afghan women can make robots too and we can improve in this section — [the] robotics section. 
We were so interested because we hadn't long or enough time to get ready for competition but we came to United States and now we are here because of Trump intervention." 
The team arrived in Washington D.C. after many difficulties. 
They were twice denied visas to enter the United States. 
Even applying for a visa required the entire team to travel about 500 miles (800 km) from Herat, their home, to the capital in Kabul, through territory controlled by the Taliban. 
They made the trip twice and were turned down both times. 
President Donald Trump personally asked the United States National Security Council to help the girls enter the country. 
After some interplay between the State and Homeland Security Departments, the girls were granted "parole" status on the grounds that their entry would be a "significant public benefit." 
The President has drawn both praise for helping the girls enter the U.S. and criticism for his travel ban, which does not cover Afghanistan, and for the atmosphere of hostility toward Muslims that critics blame for denying them entry in the first place. 
Citing privacy rules, U.S. officials have not said why the team was initially denied visas, but Afghan Ambassador Hamdullah Mohib says there were concerns they would attempt to remain in the United States or in Canada after the contest. 
Afghanistan is not one of the nations covered by President Trump's travel ban, but teams from Sudan, Iran, Libya, and Yemen, which are covered, are among the 163 teams in the competition. 
There were also two Syrian teams scheduled to compete, one national and one made up of refugees. 
Syria and all refugees are covered by the ban. 
The Syrian refugee team listed their country as "Hope" on the backs of their shirts and named their robot "Robogee." 
Teams from Morocco and Iran both had difficulties getting themselves or their robots across the U.S. border. 
Team Estonia had to rebuild their robot entirely after the original disappeared in transit. 
"Seventeen years ago, this would not have been possible at all," said Ambassador Mohib. 
"They represent our aspirations and resilience despite having been brought up in a perpetual conflict. 
These girls will be proving to the world and the nation that nothing will prevent us from being an equal and active member of the international community." 
Every team in the contest was sent a collection of robot parts roughly four months in advance of the competition. 
The Afghan team's supplies were delayed, leaving them only two weeks left to assemble their robot and only one day to test it before packing it up to mail to the competition site. 
The competition ended on Tuesday. 
This is the first FIRST Global competition, and the organization plans to hold the contest in a different country every year. 
Next year's competition is scheduled to take place in Mexico City. 
Over 900 asylum seekers rescued off Indonesian coast 
Monday, May 18, 2015 
On Friday, fishermen rescued over 700 asylum seekers whose boat sank, and the Indonesian Navy reportedly saved 200 more after they were found swimming along the coast of Aceh, Indonesia. 
Major general Fuad Basya, spokesman for the Indonesian military, said fisherman first noticed the people and a warship was deployed to retrieve them. 
The rescued members included Bangladeshis and Rohingya, a stateless minority of Muslims from Myanmar. 
Myanmar is mainly Buddhist and the United Nations rates the Rohingya among the world's most persecuted groups. 
According to ABC News, Basya also believes the asylum seekers found in the water may have left the boat on purpose to be rescued to avoid being sent away from Indonesia waters. 
Malaysia and Indonesia have maintained a policy of turning away boats of migrants which, according to AFP, the Untied Nations and United States have both criticised. 
One Rohingya, Muhammad Amin, the first boat rescued on Friday was turned around twice, toward Malaysia by Indonesian navy and then toward Indonesia by Malaysian navy. 
Discussing his concern in a public statement, Malaysia's Prime Minister, Najib Razak said, "We are in contact with all relevant parties, with whom we share the desire to find a solution to this crisis". 
Thailand has recently cracked down on human trafficking, which has affected the routes by which people-smugglers transport migrants. 
The US State Department said John Kerry, the Secretary of State, contacted Thailand's foreign minister over temporary housing for the Rohingya out at sea. 
Jeff Rathke, the State Department Spokesperson, said, "We urge the governments of the region to work together quickly, first and foremost, to save the lives of migrants now at sea who are in need of an immediate rescue effort". 
Rathke also asked the governments of South East Asia not to turn away boats of people seeking asylum. 
Estimates suggest 8000 migrants may be currently at sea in the region. 
Texas student Ahmed Mohamed inspires social movement 
Tuesday, September 22, 2015 
News of police response to a boy's digital clock in Texas last week has inspired a global social movement in support of the youth. 
Ahmed Mohamed, a 14-year-old boy from Irving, Texas, was arrested at his school by police after he brought a digital clock he had made to school. 
After news of the police response was reported, Mohamed received support online ranging from US President Barack Obama to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg. 
Yesterday Mohamed received VIP attention at Google headquarters in California at the Google Science Fair — and tomorrow he plans to meet international dignitaries at the United Nations headquarters in New York. 
US President Barack Obama tweet to student Ahmed Mohamed 
Image: Twitter / Barack Obama. 
Mohamed brought the digital clock he made to school on September 14, and a teacher mistakenly thought it resembled a bomb. 
Police arrested and questioned the student. 
Images of the boy wearing a NASA T-shirt and handcuffed by the police were quickly posted and reposted online. 
The Deseret News observed that the hashtag on Twitter, #IStandWithAhmed, had become an international phenomenon. 
The Straits Times noted what began as individual messages to Mohamed had grown into a "support movement". 
American academic and professor Marc Lamont Hill commented, 
"Hoping that the #istandwithahmed movement translates into a substantive national conversation on race, punishment, and incarceration." 
The Twitter attention led to outreach from Google and Mohamed was invited to their Google Science Fair. 
Mohamed was a VIP guest at the Google Science Fair this weekend, and was able to meet finalists at the event held at Google's headquarters located in Mountain View, California. 
Co-founder of Google, Sergey Brin, personally met with Mohamed during his visit to Google. 
On Wednesday, Mohamed and his father are to travel to the United Nations. 
His father Mohamed El-Hassan Mohamed said he was taking his entire family to the U.N. headquarters in New York, because international dignitaries wanted to meet with his son and express their support. 
Psychology major at University of Texas Arlington Amneh Jafari heard of the incident and wanted to issue her support to Mohamed. 
She chose the hastag #IStandWithAhmed and posted to Twitter. 
Jafari said she felt Mohamed had been subject to Islamophobia and her hashtag created greater awareness about this issue. 
The hashtag took on a life of its own, and was used in messages on Twitter over one million times by Thursday night. 
NASA tweeted support of Ahmed Mohamed via its account International Space Station 
Image: Twitter / NASA. 
US President Barack Obama tweeted using his @POTUS account: 
"Cool clock, Ahmed. 
Want to bring it to the White House? 
We should inspire more kids like you to like science. 
It's what makes America great." 
Twitter gave Mohamed the option to come to their company for an internship. 
Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg tweeted to Mohamed and said the boy was welcome to come and tour the company. 
Executive director of the Dallas chapter of the Council on American - Islamic Relations Alia Salem said Mohamed wishes to use his newfound fame and attention to spotlight social causes including the treatment of Muslims in the United States. 
University of Texas Arlington Muslim Student Association president Sehar Memon said the large amount of positive feedback for Mohamed had helped make his situation much better. 
Memon also said she believed the social movement in reaction to Mohamed helped improve Muslim / non-Muslim. 
Both the Irving Independent School District and the Irving Police Department have asserted that the boy's religion and name were not a factor in the manner in which they approached the situation. 
At least 107 killed in Mecca crane collapse 
Saturday, September 12, 2015 
pilgrims at Mecca's Grand Mosque in 2008. 
A storm yesterday caused a crane to fall into Mecca's Grand Mosque, killing 107 or more and wounding 238, according to Saudi Arabia's Civil Defense Authority. 
Civil Defense Authority director General Suleiman al-Amr, in remarks to al-Ikhbariya television, said "All those who were wounded and the dead have been taken to hospital. There are no casualties left at the location." 
The accident, which occurred yesterday afternoon, was caused by strong winds and heavy rain that led the crane to fall. 
Photos released of the scene showed numerous bloodied bodies and various scattered debris. 
The accident occurred at a time when the mosque was relatively uncrowded. 
"Had it happened an hour later it would have been much worse," Khaled Al-Maeena, editor at large at the Saudi Gazette, said. 
"Had it happened five hours earlier or four hours earlier, I think the death toll would have been more than a thousand." 
The crane accident comes just ten days before the beginning of the Hajj, the annual pilgrimage to Mecca, Islam's holiest site. 
As undergoing a pilgrimage to Mecca is a mandatory religious duty for all Muslims who physically and financially can, millions of pilgrims arrive in Mecca each year for the Hajj. 
Construction was underway at the mosque in order to enlarge the mosque and improve crowd control, which has been a recurring problem during Mecca's pilgrimages. 
Scientology defector arrested after attempting to leave organization 
Saturday, October 9, 2010 
Recent reports have revealed that a defector from the elite group within Scientology called the Sea Org was first persuaded to travel back to a management building for the organization in California, where he was interrogated by an attorney for Scientology and then arrested. 
Daniel Montalvo in September 2010, after having left the elite group within Scientology called the Sea Org. 
Montalvo is holding a copy of the book Blown for Good critical of Scientology, written by Marc Headley. 
Image: Mark Rathbun. 
Daniel Montalvo, 19, a member of Scientology all his life, was arrested after leaving its elite group the Sea Org. 
He was released on US$ 20,000 bail on Thursday. 
Montalvo was charged with taking hard drives and a zip drive from the Scientology organization after leaving the Sea Org group. 
The Sea Org requires members to sign a billion-year-contract, agreeing to work for the organization founded by science fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard for multiple lifetimes. 
Members of the Sea Org live a strict lifestyle – with little income, small diet provided and significant time invested in work per day. 
Montalvo had read an article in the Scientology propaganda publication Freedom Magazine, which attacked high-ranking defectors from the organization including Tom Devocht and Mark Rathbun. 
Montalvo had known Devocht personally, and came to the conclusion that the claims made about him in the Freedom article were lies. 
Montalvo was subsequently motivated to seek out information about Scientology on the Internet, and came upon a blog written by Rathbun. 
Montalvo contacted former members of Scientology, who helped him leave the organization and get in touch with Devocht. 
He traveled to Florida to meet with Devocht, who had told Montalvo he would assist him with future employment and housing. 
According to Rathbun the Scientology property in question was returned by mail to the organization by Montalvo shortly after he left the Sea Org. 
Scientology officials have stated they have not received the materials. 
After calling the Scientology organization by phone to attempt to speak with his mother, Montalvo was instead put through to a Scientology attorney, Kendrick Moxon. 
Rathbun wrote, "Moxon proceeded to lie to Daniel that the hard drives were never returned, and made a convincing case (not difficult to do with a 19 year old who does not even know the three branches of government) that Daniel would be put behind iron bars for a good long time, UNLESS of course, he returned and cooperated with Moxon and routed out properly." 
To "route out" in Scientology jargon refers to the member who wishes to leave proceeding through a set of interrogative exit interviews while attached to the Scientology device called the E-meter. 
According to Rathbun, a detective for the Los Angeles Sheriff's office was provided with material from Scientology to build a case against Montalvo. 
Rathbun stated, 
"Daniel was picked up by an investigator in a black car with blacked out windows. 
Instead of being taken to a hotel, where he could route out as promised, he was taken to the Century City Towers. 
He was deposited in an office on the 33rd floor where a pricy church lawyer interrogated him for two hours." 
Rathbun asserted that Scientology officials, "... plied the Sheriff's detective with a grand conspiracy theory, characterizing me as the 'anti-christ' of the church of Scientology. ... The next thing Daniel knows he's in a cell where he sat for the next 30 hours." 
Steve Whitmore, a representative for the LA Sheriff's office, told LA Weekly in a statement that the case involving Montalvo was being dealt with as charges relating to grand theft. 
Whitmore stated Montalvo left Scientology-related employment in Los Angeles on September 24. 
On September 29, Scientology officials went to the East Los Angeles sheriff's station where they claimed Montalvo allegedly left the organization with computer hard drives. 
Whitmore told LA Weekly that on October 6 after traveling back from Florida, Montalvo "walked into lobby of the East L.A. station and turned himself in", and told the police, "everything he did". 
Whitmore stated to LA Weekly that the alleged crime involved five hard drives each of $ 200 in value. 
Montalvo has been assisted by former members of Scientology, including musician Tiziano Lugli and actor Jason Beghe. 
Rathbun requested donations via a statement made on his blog, in order to help Montalvo with his legal defense financing. 
He described Montalvo as an individual, "facing the penitentiary in thanks for the following sins: a) Leaving a lifehood of slavery to get a taste of freedom and the world. b) Refusing - despite every provocation and incentive and threat - to frame three guys who went out of their ways (and dipped into their pockets) to help the kid achieve that freedom." 
New faces emerge as veteran politicians step down in Hong Kong legislative election 
Friday, September 9, 2016 
The Hong Kong legislative election was held on Sunday, with a record-breaking turnout of around 2 million voters and turnout rate of 58%. 
The results show the anti-establishment camp successfully maintained a majority in the geographical constituencies' seats thus veto power to any members' bills, and also a minority larger than a third to veto any bills featuring major political reforms. 
Young and new faces emerged in the new council members, as veteran politicians stepped down in both the anti-establishment and pro-Beijing campus. 
Election Results 
Eddie Chu received the largest vote in any geographical constituency 
In the New Territories West geographical constituency, nonpartisan pan-democrat Eddie Chu was elected with 84,121 votes, the most given to any list in the geographical constituencies. 
Other anti-establishment candidates elected in this district were localist camp's Cheng Chung-tai of Civic Passion, pan-democracy camp's Kwok Ka-ki and Andrew Wan of respectively Civic Party and the Democratic Party. 
The pro-Beijing camp candidates elected were New People Party's Michael Tien, DAB's Ben Chan and Leung Che-cheung, FTU's Alice Mak and pro-establishment nonpartisan Junius Ho. 
Two pan-democratic veteran politicians Lee Cheuk-yan of the Labour Party and Frederick Fung of ADPL were defeated in this constituency, with Junius Ho defeating Lee Cheuk-yan by around five thousand votes. 
Michael Tien of NPP 
DAB's Elizabeth Quat 
In the New Territories East geographical constituency, pan-democracy camp councillors Alvin Yeung from the Civic Party, Fernando Cheung of the Labour Party, Raymond Chan of People Power, and Leung Kwok-hung of LSD were successfully elected. 
Pan-democrat Lam Cheuk-ting from the Democratic Party and localist group Youngspiration's Baggio Leung were successfully elected newcomers. 
For the Pro-Beijing camp, Elizabeth Quat of DAB was elected with 58,825 votes, the highest in the constituency. 
Other pro-Beijing candidates elected in this constituency were Gary Chan of DAB and Eunice Yung of New People's Party. 
Pan-democrat Gary Fan of the Neo Democrats failed to get re-elected in this constituency, and resigned from his leadership in his party due to its election defeat. 
Alvin Yeung of Civic Party 
New People Party's Regina Ip 
In the Hong Kong Island geographical constituency, pro-Beijing New People Party's Regina Ip was re-elected with 60,760 votes. 
Other pro-Beijing elected were FTU's Kwok Wai-keung and DAB's Horace Cheung. 
Demosisto's Nathan Law earned a surprise victory as second place in the constituency with 50,818 votes, and becomes the youngest Legislative Council member in Hong Kong's history. 
The other two anti-establishment camp elects were Hui Chi-fung from the Democratic Party and Tanya Chan of the Civic Party, both considered to be in the pan-democracy camp. 
Pan-democrat veteran Cyd Ho from the Labour Party lost her seat in this constituency. 
Nathan Law of Demosisto 
Ann Chiang of DAB 
In the Kowloon West geographical constituency, pro-Beijing councillors Ann Chiang of DAB and Priscilla Leung of BPA were successfully re-elected, as well as pan-democratic councillors Claudia Mo of the Civic Party and Wong Pik-wan of the Democratic Party. 
The rest of the candidates elected in this constituency were young and relatively new activists from the localist camp, Lau Siu-lai and Youngspiration's Yau Wai-ching. 
Yau Wai-ching defeated another localist camp candidate, veteran politician Raymond Wong of the Proletariat Political Institute, by 424 votes. 
Claudia Mo of Civic Party 
Wong Kwok-kin of FTU 
In the Kowloon East geographical constituency, pro-Beijing district councillor Wilson Or was elected with 51,516 votes, the highest in this constituency. 
Nonpartisan Paul Tse and Wong Kwok-kin of the FTU were successfully re-elected. 
Pan-democracy camp councillor Wu Chi-wai of the Democratic Party was elected. 
Civic Party's Jeremy Tam was elected for the first time. 
Localist group Civic Passion's Wong Yeung-tat was defeated in this district, and resigned his leadership in Civic Passion. 
Wu Chi-wai of the Democratic Party 
Leung Yiu-chung of NWSC; from file, 2008. 
In the District Council (Second) functional constituency, commonly know as "Super District Council" seats, pan-democracy camp's Kwong Chun-yu of the Democratic Party received 491,667 votes, the highest in this constituency. 
Other pan-democrats elected were Leung Yiu-chung of NWSC and James To of the Democratic Party. 
Pro-Beijing DAB's Starry Lee and Holden Chow were successfully elected in this constituency, while pro-Beijing veteran politician Wong Kwok-hing of FTU was defeated by 10,694 votes by James To. 
DAB's Starry Lee; from file, 2015. 
In traditional functional constituencies, the pan-democracy camp gained a seat from the pro-Beijing camp. 
Shiu Ka-chun of the Social Welfare constituency defeated their opponents, hence the pan-democrats' seats in the functional constituencies increased from 9 to 10. 
Also, an independent who does not claim to belong to either camp, Edward Yiu of the Architectural, Surveying, Planning and Landscape constituency, defeated his opponents and was elected. 
The turnout of this election was the highest in the history of Legislative Council elections, with around 2 million voters voted and a turnout rate of 58%. 
At a polling station in Taikoo of the Hong Kong Island constituency, after the polls closed at 22:30, with the long queues outside the station the last ballot there was cast at 2:30 the next day, four hours after the last person was allowed to join the queue. 
The previous general legislative election in Hong Kong was before the 2014 protests. 
The election elects 70 members of the Legislative Council. 
Pop culture celebrated at Fan Expo Canada 2016 in Toronto 
Wednesday, September 7, 2016 
The far end of part of the convention floor, shortly after opening Friday. 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
The 22nd Fan Expo Canada took place at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre this weekend, attracting thousands to the event, one of the most popular in North America. 
Crossing between the genres of science fiction, horror, anime, fantasy and comics, the event sprawled throughout all corners of the facility. 
Hundreds of vendors offered products new and old, joined by celebrity guests like Stan Lee, Mark Hamill, and Margaret Atwood. 
Various local fan organizations were there in a charitable capacity, and thousands of fans donned costumes, many of which they themselves created. 
Atwood, a Booker Prize-winner, was there to launch her graphic novel Angel Catbird, with illustrator Johnnie Christmas. 
Lee was making his final Canadian convention appearance, part of a larger farewell tour. 
Hamill's schedule included a panel with Kevin Conroy, the voice of Batman in Batman: The Animated Series, in which the Star Wars lead played the Joker. 
Ubisoft, Microsoft, and PlayStation VR all had large areas set up for attendees to try their latest games. 
In the 20-minute PlayStation VR demonstration of Batman: Arkham VR, players are dropped down a secret elevator in Bruce Wayne's manor, to the Bat Cave, to suit up. 
From there, the demonstration took players to investigate the murder of Nightwing. 
The Northern Arena Esports Championship ran throughout the weekend, facing off teams of video gamers in a packed hall. 
Even in early rounds, the event was well attended, with the stands full of gamers, watching the matches with live colour commentary. 
The finals saw US team Cloud9 and Immortals, from Brazil, face off in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive. 
Both unbeaten teams going in, the Brazillian team won the championship and $ 50,000. 
Gameplay was delayed during the "third map" (third round) of the finals, when one Immortals player was caught with their headset off. 
After nearly half an hour, the team was deducted a point, leading to a sudden but temporary rush of success by the US team. 
Playstation VR demo 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
Displays of charity at event 
The Canadian garrison of 501st Legion returned with their setup of photo-ops, with proceeds to the Make-A-Wish Foundation. 
Volunteer organization Comic Corps of Canada collects donations of comics, to distribute to children and youth in the hospital. 
Along with collecting comics on-site, the group was fundraising through raffles and button sales. 
Other charitable fan-based groups included The Ontario Ghostbusters, Doctor Who Society of Canada, and Klingon Assault Group. 
Brampton Spider-Gwen and Symbiote Spidey pose at the Comic Corps booth. 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
A showdown at the 501st Legion booth. 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
Successful Stormtroopers share a high-five. 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
Cosplay celebration of craftsmanship and characters 
Epic Mickey by The Katherinator. 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
The thousands of cosplay outfits on parade around the various halls offered a tremendous cross-section of genres and eras of pop culture. 
The majority of outfits involved at least some elements made from scratch, a fantastic display of craftsmanship. 
Of the thousands, Wikinews spoke with a cosplayer going by the name "The Katherinator". 
She was outside the building in the gardens, waiting for a photographer she had arranged to shoot her new Epic Mickey costumed character-style outfit. 
With shoes as wide as a forearm, and a rigid torso of carved foam, she remained exuberant even when caught in the traffic between halls, many hours into wearing the outfit. 
Disney 
Belle 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
Superheroes 
Black Widow and Captain America 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
Anime 
Three of Digimon's "Digi-destined", including cosplayer Jessica Anderson. 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
Video games, movies, and more 
Lady Cassandra from Doctor Who. 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
Peekaboo Cosplay as The Fawn 
Image: Nick Moreau. 
New Zealand begins process to consider changing national flag design 
Thursday, May 7, 2015 
On Tuesday, the New Zealand government announced the start of a public process to suggest designs for a new national flag, and determine whether their citizens would prefer a different national flag over the current one. 
The current flag of New Zealand. 
The current New Zealand flag is partially based on the United Kingdom's flag; 
the new one would be unique to New Zealand. 
The government's Flag Consideration Project has planned a number of conferences and roadshows as part of this process, with the first meeting set to take place in Christchurch on May 16. 
According to the New Zealand Herald, Emeritus Professor John Burrows, the chairman of the project's panel of twelve, said New Zealand's flag has never before been open to public choice. 
Professor Burrows also said resources and kits would be accessible for schools and communities," For example, schools can run their own flag discussions and referendums to mirror the formal process as part of their own learning exercise". 
People were encouraged to submit their designs online at www.flag.govt.nz and suggest what the flag should mean on www.standfor.co.nz. 
Names of participants would be engraved, at their option, on a flag pole monument to be built in the nation's capital, Wellington. 
New Zealand's Prime Minister John Key said he believes redesigning the flag now has a "strong rationale". 
Mr Key promoted the campaign for a unique New Zealand flag on Waitangi Day - February 6 - this year. 
Of the public process, he said, "In the end I'll have one vote in each referendum just like every other New Zealander on the electoral roll". 
The New Zealand government intends to hold two referendums to reach a verdict on the flag, at an estimated cost of NZ $ 26 million, although a recent poll found only a quarter of citizens favoured changing the flag. 
This is a decrease from the year before, when it was forty percent. 
The first referendum is to be held from November 20 to December 11, selecting a single new flag design out of about four finalists. 
Voters would then choose between the new flag and their current flag early in 2016. 
Hackers attack Church of Scientology website 
Sunday, January 20, 2008 
Wikinews has learned that according to an Internet posting made just over 24 hours ago, the Church of Scientology's website is being attacked by hackers, causing the site to shut down. 
The attack was launched on Wednesday by a user labelled "Anonymous", on the website "Insurgency Wiki", a spinoff of 4chan. 
The "History" section of the site explains, in a satirical fashion, that the incident was prompted by the Church of Scientology's attempts to remove a promotional video featuring Scientologist Tom Cruise from YouTube. 
Though YouTube is complying with the Church of Scientology's requests to take down the video, other sites such as Gawker.com have stated that they will keep hosting the video. 
"So far, it's the Internet: 1, Scientology: 0. But it's a long game." - Matthew Ingram 
Writing in a blog post, Matthew Ingram of The Globe and Mail dubbed the ongoing conflict involving the Church of Scientology's attempts to remove the Cruise video from the Internet: "Scientology vs. the Internet, part XVII". 
He characterized the conflict between the Church of Scientology and anonymous posters of the Cruise video as "another small skirmish in a war that Scientology has been waging for almost 15 years, since the early days of newsgroups such as alt.religion.scientology, which posted internal church documents in 1994. 
Lawsuits have been filed, mailing lists have been shut down, homes of discussion group participants have been raided and their computers seized -- an all-out war." 
"Prompted I think by the Tom Cruise video, a new obsession is taking hold on the internet. An insurgency against The Church of Scientology." Anonymous blogger, "Anon declares war on Church of Scientology" 
One poster admitted to being a part of the effort, writing in a blog post "I have myself, as per instructions, loaded up Gigaloader and started bombarding the Scientology homepage. 
Theres [sic] something in the hilarious anarchy of the net that produces these 'events' every now and again." 
The poster wrote that "Prompted I think by the Tom Cruise video, a new obsession is taking hold on the internet. An insurgency against The Church of Scientology." 
"Someone emailed me earlier today talking about a tool a group’s been using to attack the scientology website. 
It’s an interesting tool, created to overload/create malformed strings and crash a website’s database," said the post by an unknown author on pigmy. 
The Church's website is currently unreachable. 
Some individuals reported that when they are able to reach the site, all they get is a message stating, "The word scientology means search for truth ...". 
As of 15:11 GMT the site was accessible again, but only loads at relatively slow speeds, and by the end of the day Saturday the site was not loading at all. 
Posts on the message board for the Scientology-critic site Operation Clambake from Friday theorized that a denial-of-service attack had occurred, and wrote that as of Friday the Scientology.org site was either not loading at all, or loading very slowly. 
Critics of Scientology at the Internet newsgroup alt.religion.scientology were critical of the attacks to the Church of Scientology website, with one poster writing "How can people look at both sides if one side is gone?" 
Traffic to the Scientology website had already increased 18-fold prior to the attack, following increased attention after the Tom Cruise video appeared on the Internet. 
At that time, one in three visits to the site came from BBC News, and the website increased to number 3 in the company Hitwise UK's Lifestyle-Religion category. 
Microsoft waits for death of Internet Explorer 6 
Tuesday, March 8, 2011 
With development of Microsoft's Internet Explorer 9 (IE9) browser almost complete, Microsoft announced on Friday that it is time for IE6 users to move away from the antiquated 10-year-old browser. 
Microsoft has replaced it with three newer versions. 
On a new website, "The Internet Explorer 6 Countdown", Microsoft has launched an aggressive campaign to persuade users to stop using IE6 and update to a newer IE. 
Its goal is to decrease IE6 users to less than one percent. 
"[Ten] years ago, a browser was born. 
Its name was Internet Explorer 6. 
Now that we’re in 2011, in an era of modern web standards, it’s time to say goodbye," Microsoft says on "The Internet Explorer 6 Countdown". 
Internet Explorer's market share is slipping. 
IE's various versions accounted for 70 percent of the market in 2009; this has dropped to approximately 56 percent today. 
Mozilla Firefox, its main rival, has been actively increasing its market share while the recently released Google Chrome is also quickly gaining users. 
PC World's recent analysis of its own web traffic statistics concluded, "Usually, Internet Explorer is the #2 browser after Firefox, but over the past 30 days its been #3, a couple of points behind Safari - and nearly tied with Chrome. 
It might be a statistical blip. 
But if it isn't, and Chrome continues to surge, IE could fall to fourth place." 
Web developers face big problems with IE6. 
As they design their web pages for the newer browsers with advanced web technology and geared to the newest web core markup language HTML 5, they are forced to accommodate older out-of-date technology to support IE6 users. 
Also, not mentioned on Microsoft's "The Internet Explorer 6 Countdown" site, are the numerous security vulnerabilities putting the browser at risk of being hacked. 
The Internet security firm Secunia.com, has said that as of March 4, 2011, IE6 has 277 vulnerabilities; 39 percent of these are rated "highly critical". 
Microsoft says that the latest versions of Internet Explorer provide the user with enhanced protection from these attacks and threats. 
Microsoft's Internet Explorer 6 is one of the most successful software products ever as measured by its durability and the massive numbers of people who have used it. 
IE6 shipped with Windows XP, nearly a decade ago. 
But it has outlived its usefulness, and Microsoft no longer wants to support it. 
Australian woman claims Church of Scientology imprisoned her for twelve years 
Thursday, May 7, 2015 
Valeska Paris, an Australian woman and former Scientologist, has claimed that the Church of Scientology imprisoned her for twelve years aboard the Scientology - owned cruise ship, Freewinds. 
The Church of Scientology's cruise ship Freewinds in Bonaire. 
Paris was born in Switzerland but her parents moved her to the United Kingdom when she was six so they could be closer to the church's headquarters. 
She joined the Sea Org aged 14. 
In 1995, at age seventeen, she was told to disconnect from her mother. 
Paris claims she was first sent to the ship aged eighteen for two weeks as a teenager but ended up spending twelve years there. 
Paris also claims that her passport was taken away from her and she was forced to work in the engine room. 
I was basically hauled in and told that my mum had attacked the church and that I needed to disconnect from her because she was suppressive. Valeska Paris 
I was basically hauled in and told that my mum had attacked the church and that I needed to disconnect from her because she was suppressive. 
Her mother had spoken out against Scientology on French television after her ex-husband and Paris's father, Albert Jaquier, committed suicide after he lost his fortune to Scientology. 
Paris claims that she was kept at Flag Land Base in Clearwater, Florida until she was eighteen and then transferred to the Freewinds. 
On board the Freewinds, Paris claims that she was working from 6:00am to midnight and due to lack of sleep ended up being a walking zombie. 
She also claims that in 1997 and 1998, she was tasked with removal of asbestos from the ship. 
In 2007, Paris left the ship after a confrontation with the ship's management. 
She was eventually sent to Rehabilitation Project Force in Sydney, which the Church describes as a religious retreat, but critics charge is a forced work camp. 
Here, she met her future husband and subsequently left the church. 
In a statement to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, the Church denied these allegations: 
She certainly wasn't 'forced' to be there. 
She was also never forced to perform labour in the engine room. 
They also claimed Paris was a volunteer and claim she has a vested interest for misrepresenting her experiences with the Church. 
The Church also claims that Paris not having her passport was maritime procedure. 
North Korea puts military in 'quasi-state of war' 
Friday, August 21, 2015 
According to Yonhap news agency, quoting North Korea's main news agency Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), the country's military has been placed on high alert and has been told to prepare a "quasi-state of war". 
The report comes after North and South Korea exchanged artillery fire yesterday. 
"War maniacs of the South Korean puppet military made another grave provocation to the DPRK in the central western sector of the front on Thursday afternoon. 
They perpetrated such reckless action as firing 36 shells at KPA civil police posts under the absurd pretext that the KPA fired one shell at the south side. 
Six shells of them hit the area near KPA civil police posts 542 and 543 and other 15 shells fell near KPA civil police posts 250 and 251", said KCNA. 
"Foolhardy provocation deserves harsh punishment", it added; and, later, "Kim Jong-un issued an order of the supreme commander of the Korean People's Army [KPA] that the front-line large combined units of the KPA should enter a wartime state to be fully battle ready to launch surprise operations". 
Yesterday, North Korea fired artillery rounds aimed at a loudspeaker in South Korea that broadcasts anti-Pyongyang propaganda into the North. 
"Commanders of the Korean People's Army were hastily dispatched to the front-line troops to command military operations to destroy psychological warfare tools if the enemy does not stop the propaganda broadcast within 48 hours and prepare against the enemy's possible counteractions", added KCNA. 
No injuries or deaths were reported in the attacks from either side, but South Korea evacuated about 80 people in the town of Yeoncheon after at least one shell landed near the area. 
The South retaliated by firing dozens of rounds of artillery into the north. 
South Korea had recently started to broadcast propaganda from loudspeakers after an 11-year lull. 
The broadcasts began on August 10 and South Korea says the broadcasts will continue. 
After the exchange of fire, North Korea stated it would attack any loudspeakers broadcasting propaganda and would respond, militarily, within 48 hours if the broadcasts do not stop. 
Both countries have put their militaries on high levels of alert. 
Lantern Festival in Taipei lights up the night 
Monday, March 5, 2007 
Taipei, Taiwan — The Taipei City Lantern Festival was off to a bright start on Saturday Night as hundreds of thousands of people crowded onto the Chiang Kai Shek Memorial near downtown Taipei to witness city mayor Hau Lung-bin and other dignitaries ceremoniously flip the switch to light hundreds of colorful lantern scenes in and around the 240,000 square meter memorial park. 
The centerpiece of this rock concert-like performance is a 15 meter high rotating pig equipped with a fog machine, laser light show and theme music. 
The theme of this years lantern festival revolves around the 12 year Chinese zodiac cycles year of the pig. 
Its round shape symbolizes wealth and good fortune and is believed to bring good luck. 
Started in 1990, the Taipei lantern festival continues a 2000 year old tradition of light related festivals marking the end of the Chinese New Year celebrations. 
This particular event grows in popularity every year. 
Last Year over 4 million visitors attended the event and this year the city expects about 6 million visitors according to the event website. 
Colorful lantern scenes not only fill the central square but also the surrounding 2 km circumference of the memorial. 
Each section has a theme. 
One side of the memorial is scenes made by student groups while other areas represent the counties of Taiwan. 
There is even a section of lanterns sponsored by foreign countries. 
The Malaysia Tourism board was quite prominent at the main entrance to the grounds. 
As with all new year celebrations in Taiwan, the lantern festival is crowded. 
People flock to see the lantern scenes and enjoy the festival atmosphere as they carry lanterns, given away by the city and bought from street vendors at the event. 
The many light toys such a swords, devil ears, and lanterns turn the milling crowd into a unique light show that can be observed by climbing the steps of the 70 meter memorial hall on the grounds. 
Local public transportation hubs are often swamped by the event. 
The station staff at Chiang Kai Shek Memorial Hall Station do an excellent job of crowd control but lines for the subway can still be hours long and very exhausting. 
A sudden rain storm on Sunday night (March 4) caused a mass exodus of people to head for the station prompting lines that backed up into the street. 
The commuting crowds can be avoided however by walking from NTU Hospital Station or Shandao Station. 
Both of these stops are only about a 20 minute walk from the event and have no crowds at all. 
If you really want to avoid the crowds, definitely avoid the weekends. 
Wait until the fourth or fifth day of the festival when the crowds will have dwindled. 
I visited the festival on Saturday night, the opening night, and there was a sea of people in the square. 
I went back the next Tuesday night and there was almost no one there, just a few stray photographers taking advantage of the unimpeded views of the lanterns. 
The festival runs through March 11 this year. 
FIFA World Cup 2018 day five: Sweden, Belgium, England win three points 
Tuesday, June 19, 2018 
Yesterday, day five of the 2018 FIFA football World Cup, Sweden defeated South Korea 1 – 0; Belgium defeated debutants Panama 3 – 0; and Tunisia lost 1 – 2 to England, with a late goal from English captain Harry Kane. 
Group F — Sweden 1 – 0 Korea Republic 
In the first game of the day, Sweden faced South Korea at the Nizhny Novgorod Stadium. 
Sweden had higher ball possession in the game. 
Korea's Kim Shin-Wook was shown a yellow card early in the game. 
In the 20th minute, Marcus Berg missed a chance to put Sweden in the lead. 
Korea substituted Park Joo-Ho in the 28th minute of the game due to injury and was replaced by Kim Min-Woo. 
Despite their attempts, neither side could open the scoring in the first half as it ended 0 – 0. 
In the second half, Hwang Hee-Chan was booked for a bad foul. 
In the 62nd minute Kim Min-Woo conceded a penalty which the match referee Joel Aguilar awarded Sweden after confirming with the video assistant referee. 
Swedish captain Andreas Granqvist scored from the penalty spot, putting Sweden 1 – 0 up. 
In the injury time, Hwang Hee-Chan's header went wide to the left, missing a chance to equalise for Korea. 
The match ended with Sweden winning three points. 
Swedish captain Andreas Granqvist won the Budweiser Man of the Match award. 
This was Sweden's first victory in the opening match of the World Cup since 1958. 
Group G — Belgium 3 – 0 Panama 
In the first game of Group G, Belgium faced Panama at the Fisht Stadium in Sochi. 
Belgium had greater ball possession in the match. 
Belgium started the game with attacking style with Romelu Lukaku, Yannick Carrasco, and Dries Mertens making early attempts to put Belgium into the lead against debutans Panama. 
Dries Mertens's attempt in the 18th minute failed. 
The first half ended with 0 – 0 on the scoreboard. 
Just two minutes in the second half, Dries Mertens scored a goal from a volley, putting the Belgians in the lead. 
Panama's attempt in the 54th minute, by Michael Murillo, was saved by Thibaut Courtois. 
In the 69th minute, Romelu Lukaku doubled the lead for Belgium, scoring a header from Kevin De Bruyne's assist. 
Six minutes later, Lukaku scored a third goal for Belgium, this time from Eden Hazard's assist. 
In the 90th minute, Belgium made a change, as Nacer Chadli replaced Axel Witsel. 
The second half ended with the Belgians winning three points. 
Five Panamanian players were booked in the match. 
Lukaku won the Budweiser Man of the Match award. 
After the match, Hernan Dario Gomez, Panama coach, said, "I think we have learned a lot from today's game. 
It was a very emotional day. 
This is the fifth time I've been at a World Cup but it felt like the first. 
The team was still very emotional at the start of the match but as time went by, they were able to focus better." 
Group G — Tunisia 1 – 2 England 
In the last match of the day, Tunisia faced England at the Volgograd Arena. 
England had better ball possession in the game. 
England started the match with attacking style, with attempts from Jesse Lingard, Harry Maguire, Harry Kane, and John Stones early in the game. 
Then England opened the scoring, when Harry Kane scored a close-ranged shot. 
Four minutes later, Tunisia's goalkeeper Mouez Hassen was substituted off due to injury and replaced by Farouk Ben Mustapha. 
Tunisia won a penalty kick in the 33rd minute. 
English defender Kyle Walker was booked for his bad foul, and Ferjani Sassi scored from the penalty spot, equalising for the African side. 
The first half ended 1 – 1 on the scoreboard. 
In the second half, both sides had attempts for goals, but none crossing the goal line. 
In the injury time, English captain Harry Kane scored a second goal as England won a corner kick. 
The match came to end with England winning 2 – 1 and collecting three points. 
Harry Kane won the Budweiser Man of the Match award. 
He said, "In the first half it felt good out there. 
We could've scored two or three goals in the first half and put the game to bed early." 
After the match, Tunisia's coach Nabil Maaloul said, "We were playing against a highly-skilled and highly co-ordinated team in terms of their forward players. 
If we were to get a draw it would have been an excellent result for us. 
But hopefully this will lead to higher levels of concentration in the coming games." 
Hundreds dead in Hajj stampede 
Thursday, January 12, 2006 
The Plains of Arafat on the day of Hajj 
According to the Saudi Interior Ministry over 345 Muslim pilgrims have been killed in a stampede during the annual Hajj pilgrimage near Mecca, Saudi Arabia. 
The stampede at Islam's most holy site happened at Jamarat Bridge, during an event where pebbles are thrown at a pillar to represent the stoning of Satan as part of the final rites of the Hajj. 
The stampede began when luggage from a bus tripped pilgrims at the eastern end of the wall, causing a bottleneck. 
Those who were tripped were then crushed by the wave of people behind them. 
Muslims are required to make a pilgrimage to Mecca during their lifetimes, if physically or financially possible, as it is one of the five pillars of the Islamic faith. 
Saudi officials had already provided safeguards by installing an oval wall with padded edges to protect pilgrams from a crush, installed security cameras and placed over 60,000 security personnel in the area. 
This is not the first time deadly stampedes have taken place during the Hajj, with the deadliest stampede during the 1991 Hajj, in which 1,426 pilgrims were trampled. 
Last week, at least 76 people were killed when the Al-Ghaza Hotel near the Masjid Al-Haram (Grand Mosque) collasped, the cause of which is unknown. 
Local municipalities in Italy ask taxes from religious schools 
Sunday, August 2, 2015 
In the past few days in Italy, several municipalities have started asking religious schools to pay taxes for property and local services, despite the resistance of the Catholic Church. 
Instituto Gonzaga, a catholic school in Milan. Image: Friedrichstrasse. 
The request of the municipalities results from the sentence of the Italian Supreme Court of Cassation on July 8, recognising as legitimate the request of the Municipality of Livorno asking religious schools to pay property taxes. 
Requests have come from the Municipality of Bogliasco, next to Genova, and from the deputies of Movimento 5 Stelle (M5S) of the regional counsel of Lombardy. 
The first case is of the mayor Luca Pastorino that in last years received several refusals of his requests for payment because of the religious nursery school and retirement home. 
In the second case, the M5S party asks to the regional government to assure the local administrations of the region regularly apply the sentence of the Supreme Court. 
The case on which the Court has ruled was of the religious schools Santo Spirito and Immacolata in Livorno, Tuscany, to pay over 422,000 euros in arrears for the period from 2004 to 2009. 
The request was advanced by the Municipality of Livorno in 2010. 
The city reasoned, "because the users of the private schools pay a frequency fee, this kind of activity is considered as a commercial one" ((it)). 
In 2014 the Italian municipal tax discipline has changed from the ICI system to the IMU system by the Monti government. 
A mean cost per student criterion is used to tax only the schools that receive a fee higher than the mean cost per student fixed by the State. 
The new law is not retroactive, so the taxes requested in arrears from 2006 to 2009 are under the ICI system. 
Minister of Education Stefania Giannini said a "more general reflection" ((it)) is needed. 
Claudio De Vincenti, undersecretary to the prime minister, said "a discussion table will be opened with the non-profit associations, religious association included" ((it)). 
Undersecretary for Education Mr. Toccafondi says "many schools will increase their fees or they will quit. Then the State will have to find new resources to build new structures and manage them" ((it)). 
Also the president of the Lombardy region, Roberto Maroni, has reacted by proposing some regional counter-measures to finance private schools. 
The secretary general of CEI (Italian Episcopal Conference), Nunzio Galantino, has called the sentence "dangerous" ((it)) and "ideological" ((it)): 
"We face a dangerous sentence. 
Who takes the decisions, do it with less ideology. 
Because I have the clear sensation that with this way of thinking, they wait the praise of some ideologized supporters. 
Indeed, they don't understand what kind of good service private schools held" ((it)). 
Italian secularist associations are concerned the Government will modify the law in order to maintain an exception for religious schools. 
The secularist magazine MicroMega describe the court's judgement as historic. 
The Union of Rationalist Atheists and Agnostics (UAAR) has launched a petition which now has more than 11,000 signatures, asking the government to respect and execute the sentence of the Supreme Court. 
It is also encouraging citizens to ask for application of the law in their local municipalities. 
Warhol's photo legacy spread by university exhibits 
Tuesday, January 28, 2014 
Portrait shot of Dennis Hopper, famous for his role in the 1969 film Easy Rider, amongst the Warhol Polaroids donated to USI by the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. 
Image: Andy Warhol. 
Opening night, January 23, 2014, of the Andy Warhol exhibit of Polaroids and screen prints at the University of Southern Indiana. 
Video: Miharris & Acphillips. 
Evansville, Indiana, United States - 
This past week marked the opening night of an Andy Warhol exhibit at the University of Southern Indiana. 
USI's art gallery, like 189 other educational galleries and museums around the country, is a recipient of a major Warhol donor program, and this program is cultivating new interest in Warhol's photographic legacy. 
Wikinews reporters attended the opening and spoke to donors, exhibit organizers and patrons. 
The USI art gallery celebrated the Thursday opening with its display of Warhol's Polaroids, gelatin silver prints and several colored screen prints. 
USI's exhibit, which is located in Evansville, Indiana, is to run from January 23 through March 9. 
Full interview with Kristin Wilkins, curator of the exhibition at the University of Southern Indiana. 
Audio: Jkthom. 
The McCutchan Art Center / Pace Galleries at USI bases its exhibit around roughly 100 Polaroids selected from its collection. 
The Polaroids were all donated by the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program, according to Kristen Wilkins, assistant professor of photography and curator of the exhibit. 
The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts made two donations to USI Art Collections, in 2007 and a second recently. 
Kathryn Waters, director of the gallery, expressed interest in further donations from the foundation in the future. 
Since 2007 the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program has seeded university art galleries throughout the United States with over 28,000 Andy Warhol photographs and other artifacts. 
The program takes a decentralized approach to Warhol's photography collection and encourages university art galleries to regularly disseminate and educate audiences about Warhol's artistic vision, especially in the area of photography. 
University exhibits 
Kristen Wilkins, curator of "Andy Warhol: Photographs and Prints from the University Collection" at the University of Southern Indiana, January 23 - March 9 2014. 
Image: Snbehnke. 
Wikinews provides additional video, audio and photographs so our readers may learn more. 
Wilkins observed that the 2007 starting date of the donation program, which is part of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, coincided with the 20th anniversary of Andy Warhol's death in 1987. 
USI was not alone in receiving a donation. 
K.C. Maurer, chief financial officer and treasurer at the Andy Warhol Foundation, said 500 institutions received the initial invitation and currently 190 universities have accepted one or more donations. 
Institutional recipients, said Mauer, are required to exhibit their donated Warhol photographs every ten years as one stipulation. 
While USI is holding its exhibit, there are also Warhol Polaroid exhibits at the Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, New York and an Edward Steichen and Andy Warhol exhibit at the Mary & Leigh Block Museum of Art at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. 
All have received Polaroids from the foundation. 
University exhibits can reach out and attract large audiences. 
For example, the Weatherspoon Art Museum at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro saw attendance levels reach 11,000 visitors when it exhibited its Warhol collection in 2010, according to curator Elaine Gustafon. 
That exhibit was part of a collaboration combining the collections from Duke University, located in Durham, North Carolina, and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which also were recipients of donated items from the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program. 
Superstars 
Each collection donated by the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program holds Polaroids of well-known celebrities. 
The successful UNC Greensboro exhibit included Polaroids of author Truman Capote and singer-songwriter Carly Simon. 
"I think America's obsession with celebrity culture is as strong today as it was when Warhol was living", said Gustafon. 
"People are still intrigued by how stars live, dress and socialize, since it is so different from most people's every day lives." 
Wilkins explained Warhol's obsession with celebrities began when he first collected head shots as a kid and continued as a passion throughout his life. 
"He's hanging out with the celebrities, and has kind of become the same sort of celebrity he was interested in documenting earlier in his career", Wilkins said. 
The exhibit at USI includes Polaroids of actor Dennis Hopper; musician Nick Rhodes of Duran Duran; publishers Jann Wenner of Rolling Stone Magazine and Carlo De Benedetti of Italy's la Repubblica; disco club owner Steve Rubell of Studio 54; photographers Nat Finkelstein, Christopher Makos and Felice Quinto; and athletes Vitas Gerulaitis (tennis) and Jack Nicklaus (golf). 
Wikinews observed the USI exhibit identifies and features Polaroids of fashion designer Halston, a former resident of Evansville. 
University collections across the United States also include Polaroids of "unknowns" who have not yet had their fifteen minutes of fame. 
Cynthia Thompson, curator and director of exhibits at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, said, "These images serve as documentation of people in his every day life and art - one which many of us enjoy a glimpse into." 
Warhol's photographic legacy 
Warhol was close to important touchstones of the 1960s, including art, music, consumer culture, fashion, and celebrity worship, which were all buzzwords and images Wikinews observed at USI's opening exhibit. 
He was also an influential figure in the pop art movement. 
"Pop art was about what popular American culture really thought was important", Kathryn Waters said. 
"That's why he did the Campbell Soup cans or the Marilyn pictures, these iconic products of American culture whether they be in film, video or actually products we consumed. 
So even back in the sixties, he was very aware of this part of our culture. 
Which as we all know in 2014, has only increased probably a thousand fold." 
"I think everybody knows Andy Warhol's name, even non-art people, that's a name they might know because he was such a personality", Water said. 
Hilary Braysmith, USI associate professor of art history, said, "I think his photography is equally influential as his graphic works, his more famous pictures of Marilyn. 
In terms of the evolution of photography and experimentation, like painting on them or the celebrity fascination, I think he was really ground-breaking in that regard." 
The Polaroid format is not what made Warhol famous, however, he is in the company of other well-known photographers who used the camera, such as Ansel Adams, Chuck Close, Walker Evans, Robert Mapplethorpe, and Helmut Newton. 
Wilkins said," [Warhol] liked the way photo booths and the Polaroid's front flash looked". 
She explained how Warhol's adoption of the Polaroid camera revealed his process. 
According to Wilkins, Warhol was able to reproduce the Polaroid photograph and create an enlargement of it, which he then could use to commit the image to the silk screen medium by applying paint or manipulating them further. 
One of the silk screens exhibited at USI this time was the Annie Oakley screen print called "Cowboys and Indians" from 1987. 
Wilkins also said Warhol was both an artist and a businessperson. 
"As a way to commercialize his work, he would make a blue Marilyn and a pink Marilyn and a yellow Marilyn, and then you could pick your favorite color and buy that. 
It was a very practical salesman approach to his work. 
He was very prolific but very business minded about that." 
"He wanted to be rich and famous and he made lots of choices to go that way", Wilkins said. 
USI exhibit 
Kiara Perkins, a second year USI art major, admitted she was willing to skip class Thursday night to attend the opening exhibit but then circumstances allowed for her to attend the exhibit. 
Why did she so badly want to attend? 
"It's Warhol. 
He is a legend." 
For Kevin Allton, a USI instructor in English, Warhol was also a legend. 
He said, "Andy Warhol was the center of the Zeitgeist for the 20th century and everything since. 
He is a post-modern diety." 
Allton said he had only seen the Silver Clouds installation before in film. 
The Silver Clouds installation were silver balloons blown up with helium, and those balloons filled one of the smaller rooms in the gallery. 
"I thought that in real life it was really kind of magical," Allton said. 
"I smacked them around." 
Elements of the Zeitgeist were also playfully recreated on USI's opening night. 
In her opening remarks for attendees, Waters pointed out those features to attendees, noting the touches of the Warhol Factory, or the studio where he worked, that were present around them. 
She pointed to the refreshment table with Campbell's Soup served with "electric" Kool Aid and tables adorned with colorful gumball "pills". 
The music in the background was from such bands as The Velvet Underground. 
The big hit of the evening, Wikinews observed from the long line, was the Polaroid-room where attendees could wear a Warhol-like wig or don crazy glasses and have their own Polaroid taken. 
The Polaroids were ready in an instant and immediately displayed at the entry of the exhibit. 
Exhibit goers then became part of the very exhibit they had wanted to attend. 
In fact, many people Wikinews observed took out their mobiles as they left for the evening and used their own phone cameras to make one further record of the moment - a photo of a photo. 
Perhaps they had learned an important lesson from the Warhol exhibit that cultural events like these were ripe for use and reuse. 
We might even call these exit instant snap shots, the self selfie. 
Scientists analyse effects of global warming, atmospheric ozone on crops 
Monday, July 28, 2014 
A research team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Colorado State University of the US and the University of Sheffield of the UK has analysed effects of global warming and ozone pollution over 2000 - 2050 on the worldwide production of wheat, rice, maize and soybean. 
The study was published in journal Nature Climate Change yesterday. 
The scientists found reduction of crop yields by 2050 exceeded 10% of 2000 levels, substantially decreasing food security, in all cases examined. 
Several scenarios were considered because of uncertainty of future levels of ozone pollution. 
They estimated by 2050, increasing population and changing diet would increase world food needs by 50 percent. 
As coauthor Colette Heald told The Huffington Post, "The climate projections are quite consistent [...] 
the future of ozone pollution is very different [...] leading to either offsetting or reinforcing effects [of climate change] on crops". 
By 2050, undernourishment would increase by either 49 percent or by 27 percent, depending on the scenario. 
The study focuses on ozone-temperature covariation: ground-level ozone increases with temperatures. 
Heald said although temperature and ozone are separately known to impact crop yields, "nobody has looked at these together". 
Depending on region and crops, the yields may be primarily sensitive to ozone - in the case of wheat - or heat - in the case of maize - alone, providing a local estimation of relative benefits of climate change adaptation versus ozone regulation. 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture notes, "Ground-level ozone causes more damage to plants than all other air pollutants combined", highlighting the importance of air quality for agriculture. 
Results of NCLAN studies, published in a paper by AS Heagle in 1989, show dicot species, such as soybean, cotton, and peanut, lose more yield from ozone than do monocot species such as sorghum, field corn, and winter wheat. 
The researchers found that ozone pollution caused 46 percent of previously heat-attributed damage to soybean crops. 
The model does not include the effect of rising carbon dioxide concentration, which has complex and potentially offsetting impacts on global food supply. 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency says some crops may have higher yields with increased levels of carbon dioxide. 
However, global warming also increases probability of extreme crops-damaging weather events such as floods, droughts, and extreme temperatures. 
Climate change affects distribution of weeds, pests, and diseases. 
Heald noted the findings show pollution reduction is also important. 
"An air-quality cleanup would improve crop yields [...] 
Ozone is something that we understand the causes of, and the steps that need to be taken to improve air quality." 
As Heald told The Huffington Post, US surface ozone has dropped partly due to the Clean Air Act. 
"Despite an increase in vehicle miles driven and energy consumption, surface ozone has declined by 25 percent on average across the U.S. from 1980 to 2012 [...] 
However, the future of ozone air quality in the U.S. and around the world will depend on local emissions, the use of pollution control technology, regulations, and air quality policy." 
The study was supported by the Croucher Foundation, US National Science Foundation, and US National Park Service. 
Greek court rules worship of ancient Greek deities is legal 
Monday, March 27, 2006 
Greek court has ruled that worshippers of the ancient Greek religion may now formally associate and worship at archeological sites. 
Prior to the ruling, the religion was banned from conducting public worship at archeological sites by the Greek Ministry of Culture. 
Due to that, the religion was relatively secretive. 
The Greek Orthodox Church, a Christian denomination, is extremely critical of worshippers of the ancient deities. 
Today, about 100,000 Greeks worship the ancient gods, such as Zeus, Hera, Poseidon, Aphrodite, and Athena. 
The Greek Orthodox Church estimates that number is closer to 40,000. 
Many neo-pagan religions, such as Wicca, use aspects of ancient Greek religions in their practice; Hellenic polytheism instead focuses exclusively on the ancient religions, as far as the fragmentary nature of the surviving source material allows. 
