Extremely bad customer service 
Do not go to this salon, especially if you have to get your hair straightened. 
They did a very bad job with my hair and were extremely rude when I went back to ask them why it didn't work for my hair. 
Rude, insensitive, discourteous people!!!!! 
Great Doc 
Dr Greenwalt fixed my neck from a snowboard injury and was way more effective that a regular doctor. 
He didnt prescribe pain meds or other drugs, he used his bodytalk method which is unusual but the results are undeniable. 
My neck is fixed!. 
He knows what hes doing. 
Our Wedding 11/7/08 
We just had our wedding on 11/7/08 and was very impressed. 
Cj and company did all that we ask and 10 times more. 
The food was out standing. 
If you need a cater that is affordable and easy to work with they are the ones. 
Thanks again Saucey's. 
Mark 
Excellent Tattoo Shop 
I recently got a tattoo done at Aztec and I could not be happier. 
It came out better than I even imagined. 
The shop was great, the service was excellent and the employees were fun guys. 
I would highly recommend this shop to anyone looking to get a quality tattoo done. 
Good and Bad 
I had to take care of the ants myself. 
But I found the location wonderful and the neighbors very kind. 
Never had a problem with the staff and found them very helpful when something went wrong. 
Loved the pool and BBQ. 
Because of the ants I dropped them to a 3 star. 
Great pet care 
I have used Just Like Family several times now and they have provided great care for my two dogs. 
Lynda is professional and has great compassion for animals. 
The real testament is not in how much she likes your animals but how much they like her. 
I highly recommend her. 
I found Bright Star Tours and Travels and Best and Affordable Tour Operators and Tours Agents in Chennai, India offered me Student Tour India Package for very less price. 
I enjoyed my tour and i am looking for adventure tour and India heritage tours for valuable. 
Thanks for Bright Star Tours. 
these guys were fantastic! 
they fixed my garage doors in literally less than an hour. 
the guy came on time and didn't take any breaks, he went straight to work and finished the job efficiently and promptly! 
i couldn't be more happier with the way my garage looks. 
GREAT JOB GUYS! 
A+ 
I would rate Fran pcs an A+ because the price was lower than everyone else, i got my computer back the next day, and the professionalism he showed was great. 
He took the time to explain things to me about my computer, i would recommend you go to him. 
David 
This office is awesome! 
everyone here is super friendly and efficient! 
its great to know you can get great service, great product, and for the best price all in one! 
I've referred everyone i know here and they all feel the same way!! 
i'll be coming back for years to come! 
Criminal Attorney Dallas 
Dallas Criminal Attorney Peter Barrett is absolutely committed to vigorously supporting your rights and achieving a successful outcome. 
As a qualified criminal defense attorney, he will work every possible legal "angle" (leaving no stone unturned) of your case to achieve the most favorable result possible. 
Food was cold 
I have been here 3 to 4 times and every time food they served seems warmed up not cooked after you order it. 
I like my food hot both ways not warm or cold. 
Price and taste is good. 
I will be happy if they can serve when food is piping hot. 
KB 
FAST and reasonable$ 
We went to Kobeys on Saturday and had our whole teams uniforms done! 
He was less than half of the price of the cheapest quote we got, and his work was top notch. 
Down to earth and fast service. 
Going back to have some lab coats done this weekend! 
We love Little Farmer 
We attend LFTD and our children LOVE it!! 
They even want to go to school on the weekends!! 
They are preparing my older son for kindergarten and looks forward to seeing his teacher and friends everyday. 
My infant is content everyday when I drop off and pick up. 
PAT testing quick & efficient 
I rang SRD PAT testing and within 3 hours Scot had come to my premises and PAT tested all my our Spill The Whisky barn dance band equipment, and supplied a certificate for only 70p per unit. 
Fantastic, quick and efficient service. 
How rare! 
Well done. 
My favorite florist! 
I came to La Crosse to go to college, and my mom would send me birthday flowers though here. 
They were beautiful and lasted forever! 
Now that I live here, this is my favorite place to grab flowers for friends and coworkers! 
Hands down, best place in the area! 
I <3 Max's 's 
Excellent bagels and excellent service! 
I go in about every morning to get bagels for myself or my co-workers and the employees at Max's are great!! 
They are friendly and fast. 
I have never had a problem with their hours because I always go during the mornings. 
They are great! 
prepared the road test with a driving ... prepared the road test with a driving school in edmonton, but my instructor only trained me in a narrow street, hence I took one 90 minute lesson from the Noble driving school to learn the skill of changing lane, and found them very friendly and professional. 
Great Doctor! 
Dr. Faris is a great doctor! 
I would recommend him to anyone. 
I was experiencing severe back pain to the point I could barely walk or even bare to sit. 
I went from a pain scale of 8-9 to 0 and I was able to run in the Crim just a week later!! 
happy customer 
Mr. Squeege is THE BEST. 
Prompt, Clean Windows. 
Affordable pricing. 
Friendly responses. 
How else can excellent be described for a business of this sort? 
They have been my only "go-to" resource since we first did business together. 
You will find the same to be true for you. 
Fantastic Place to buy your next vehicle 
We have never had a bad experience buying from Edmark. 
This is car number 3 we've purchased through them. 
We trust and appreciate Scott Larson and know that he will always take good care of us and listen to our needs! 
Thank you again for great customer service! 
Range Rover Sport Window Tints 
Mark at Tintman Nationwidetints Ltd, did a very Professional job very quick, no fuss, deliverd the car to me and I drove him back home,Great arrangement Great price!! 
Highly recommended!! 
Thanks Mark. 
Steve.... proud Range Rover Sport owner (with rear tints) 
In this hard economic times is very important to save money Very reasonable prices top quality work The owner operator he does all the the work with Helpers very friendly I definitely recommend this this guys Don't get jack by big companies that they pay alot of money to be on top of the list Thanks 
Great pub 
Had a meal in this pub and i have to say it was excellant. 
It has to be one of the nicest pubs that i have been into in a long time, the decor is nice and it has a really nice garden and a lovely decking area. 
Good beer good service and what more could you want. 
awful awful awful 
This store is by far the worst Verizon store I've been in. 
The salespeople are never available, the lines are always too long, and all the people want is a sale. 
Incredibly rude and I will not return to it. 
Is there no other Verizon to go to around Downtown/Dupont Circle1?!?!? 
Great graphic design work! 
Fresh Design Studio helped jump-start my own business by providing affordable and effective marketing materials: logo, flyers, posters ad design, and more. 
They have unbeatable price in town and deliver on time. 
I enjoy working with this architectural and graphic design firm and will recommend to anyone. 
Great Surgeon 
I needed wisdom teeth taken out. 
Dr. Wallen and staff was excellent. 
They were accomdating with my scheduled and work with my insurance to get payment for the surgery. 
Dr. Wallen explained the procedure in detail and took his time with me. 
Staff explained insurance procedures and was very helpful. 
Everyone was very nice. 
The best in the area! 
I've been to quite a few tattoo shops around this area and Stainless Steel is by far the best. 
I am very pleased with the tattoos that I revived from them. 
The artwork is excellent and the prices are very reasonable. 
I would recommend this shop to anyone looking to get a tattoo. 
Cathy ******Five Stars for Lake Forest Tots. 
The program has been a postive experience for my children. 
I have had all three of my children attend Lake Forest Tots. 
The program is well established and we have been extremely satisfied with the teachers, the programs and the director. 
Good job, Lake Forest Tots! 
Great Wine & Service 
This place is so great! 
They have a great selection of wine from all over the world with all different prices. 
The employees make you feel very comfortable and are very helpful, whether you are very knowledgeable or don't know anything at all about wine. 
Check out their wine tastings every Friday night! 
A+ 
Excellent customer service and honest feedback. 
The team at Bradley Chevron kept my car running for well past its expected death! 
They are honest about 'immediate' concerns versus 'recommended' repairs and have very fair prices. 
Such a convenient location as well with coffee shop and bradley food and beverage right around corner. 
Needs to go out of business 
They close whenever they feel like it, often well before their listed closing time. 
Their store is dusty, dirty and feels like you're stepping into the 1970s. 
They don't take coupons. 
They have a credit card minimum. 
This place is the opposite of QuikTrip: crappy in every way. 
Where else can you go for $10 and recieve this treatment?! 
Awesome haircut at awesome price right here in Palatine! 
Who can pass up a hot towel and a straight edge neck shave! 
I've had 2 cuts now from Georgia and have paid more in other salons/barbershops and have not received this kind of treatment or cut! 
Baffled by the one-star reviews 
I don't get it. 
This place is awesome, with a great ambiance and cool décor, and the food is scrumptious (and especially their signature banana split). 
Sure, some items are a little pricey, but c'mon... have you ever been out to eat in Seattle before? 
I've only had good experiences at Adorn, I was greeted and offered a refreshment. 
I highly recommend Debi, she does an amazing job, I "love" the way she cuts my hair, extremely thorough and cross checks her work to make sure my hair is perfect. 
I always leave loving my hair style. 
Best Chineese food in the area 
The food here is fresh and hot out of the Wok. 
The food is cooked fast by the two chefs on duty. 
The lunch specials are more food than most people can eat for about $6. 
It is busy every day at lunch for a reason, the service is fast and the food is great. 
Pure Pilates!! 
It is the real thing - I have been practicing Pilates for over 7 years and would not go anywhere else. 
It is the attention to detail and the quality of the work taught at TomiPilates that sets this studio apart from the others. 
The teachers are highly trained and are expert at handling all types of clients. 
I phoned this company for advice on our office refurb and although we did not use them in the end(as our building contractor carried out the electrical work), they provided me with plenty of useful information over an hour phone call and subsequently we are now using PJC as our electrical maintenance contractor. 
Thoroughly recommended 
They really go above and beyond! 
For example, I actually forgot to feed my cat, and they went out of their way to take care of him. 
Additionally, when there was confusion (my fault), they left me flowers along with a personalized gift. 
They have been 100% reliable and professional. 
Definitely recommend! 
heating system Angels 
seriously, can you imagine having to live through these last few nights without heat? 
I would have had to because with the economy the way it is i aint haves much monies fo repairs round the House....
Comfort zone came out and did my house heat on the cheap. 
and it works! 
Thank you Comfort Zone 
Slowest, Unfriendly Sstaff on Weekends 
There are three Starbucks locations that I frequent. 
I have a bit of experience watching the usual assembly line. 
I also understand that weekend staffs are different than daytime staffs and not necessarily Starbucks A-team or even full-time. 
But this location has the worst weekend staff I've seen EVER. 
Skip te rest - this is the best 
Absolutely great ! 
Clean, updated room, friendly staff, safe location. 
Staff is super friendly, treat you as a friend. 
Cannot ask for a better experience. 
Will be staying here any and every time I come anywhere near. 
Overall, Joe is a happy camper who has found a great spot. 
PHOTOS DONE WELL 
I Love Hellada Gallery! 
Marek Dzida the owner and photographer puts whole heart in his business - If you are into old fashion (Not Digital) quality photography this is best place in Long Beach as I think not many folks can do affordable traditional photos anymore I know Marek personaly and I will always recommend him 
BAD COFFEE, DONT BOTHER! 
Can't you make a decent cup of coffee? 
You charge SO MUCH, yet you use the same grounds over and over again. 
The coffee taste BURNT and very bitter. 
No amount of sugar and milk can mask it. 
CHANGE THE PROCESS, PPL! 
Westfield and Rt 1 do it well, WHY CANT U???? 
Home made product 
I sometimes go into this store just for something to do on a sunday afternoon. 
I love the people, the product and the service! 
Nothing compares to a home made product that really stands the test of time. - 
The Brick, Ikea, and Leon's have their place. 
But furniture like this will truly be around forever. 
The internet here is terrible. 
Like the previous poster said, the com lines are split between the entire building. 
That's 3x worse than Qwest DSL's lowest speed offering! 
The outward appearance makes you think this place is nice, but everything inside is cheap cheap cheap. 
Moving out as soon as our lease is up. 
http://www.speedtest.net/result/1155244347.png 
Awesome!!!! 
Yes my G1 screen is back working. 
They was about to Charge me $129...
But i paid $100. 
they save me from having to deal with Tmobile... 
Tmobile want to Send of my phone and i didn't want to go thru that... 
3 Days For get that... 
Great service. 
I would recommend them to anyone.. 
Great out night! 
You can't go wrong with Tuesday prices, even if you get quite the mixed bag of comedians! 
Extensive drink list and daily specials but wish they had a bit more on their food menu, although popcorn is a nice touch! 
(other items: chicken fingers, wings, asian pizza, and yam and regular fries) 
Their food and sweets are awesome. 
But service is very poor. 
Attitude of staff very bad. 
Never gives a receipt. 
Sometimes even gives wrong dish. 
So confused at the payment area. 
Line up is so stupid. 
Even if you line up. 
To make a order you may have to go to back of line. 
And then wait again. 
Not organised. 
Hair By Nivine in eastgardens fixed my hair after i had my hair cut and colored at another salon i felt more confident and the girls are fantastic and ive been going there now for 2 years always happy and they care about my hair had my hair done for my wedding it looked fabolous ! 
and there prices are really good! 
Best food in northeast 
Theres a reason why Frank mcclelland was named best chef of the north east reigon. 
Food here is absolutely superb. 
Everything is delicous and cooked perfectly. 
The waiting staff is beyond impeccable (they refold your napkin when you go to the bathroom). 
If you want great food then L'espalier is the place to go. 
I didn't end up buying my car here, but I did think the guy who worked with me was pretty cool - he was willing to budge a little on the price which means a lot to me. 
Also they will fill your tires with air and other small maintenance tasks for free, even if you didn't buy your car there! 
The Best Deals in Town 
Before you buy ANYTHING in NY, make sure you stop by Jack-s first. 
Their selection is random, so what they have on a given week might never be available again at the store. 
I love it for discounted beauty items and household appliances. 
Trust me, you go there once and you-ll always go back! 
First Time Ballerina 
My daughter is starting ballet this year for the first time. 
I'ma soccer mom so I wasn't sure what I was looking for when it comes to dancewear. 
The staff was very helpful and gave me exactly what I needed for my first time ballerina. 
The service at Instep was great!! 
I would recommend them to anyone! 
Outstanding service & quality at a very affordable price! 
This place is top notch and highly affordable! 
I would recommend it hands down and am a loyal customer. 
I've also sent over a number of friends to use the services here and everyone is extraordinarily pleased! 
Thanks for doing such great work on my important pieces of clothing that always look great! 
Tried Crust on Broad on 3 occasions. 
Twice for dinner and once for lunch Absolutely rude service every time! 
The staff will not even answer the phone for take out. 
Tonight, I called several times with no answer (Btwn 5:30 and 6 pm) and finally drove there to place my order in person. 
There was not a customer to be found. 
we purchased a new home but was unable to sell our old house so we contacted this property management company and they have helped us quickly rent out our house and keep it maintained. 
Since then we have decided to have them manage our other investment properties as well as we getting older and can no longer perform all the inquires. 
Great help! 
We just got our sunroom built by Patio World and can say that I'm extremely happy with the whole thing. 
From the amount of time spent with us to explain things during the initial quote, to the communication through the approval process to the actual workmanship of the build itself. 
I have nothing bad to say. 
Very glad that we went with them. 
No Customer Service 
Employees seemed to be having a good time chatting and laughing with each other, while myself and other customers were completely ignored. 
Another person in the store stood there with an item and repeatedly tried to get a sales persons attention. 
It wasn't until he gave up and walked out the door that someone asked Can I help you. 
do NOT bring your car here 
I got a coupon from Pennysaver for this station. 
Yes, they accepted it. 
However, during the test, they did whatever they can to get my test failed. 
Then, they sold me overpriced stuffs, such as oil tank cap, so that my car can pass it right away. 
I ended up paying much more. 
Are you kidding me? 
I don't get it. 
Spongy and sweet bread (microwaved?), heartless salsa, tiny dogs...
You order at the counter and there is a space for tip on your credit card receipt. 
The dude who grills the retarded dogs is rude. 
If this is the best that Tucson has to offer, I am outta here... 
I called on a Friday at 12:30 complaining of a severe toothache. 
Dr. Obina told me that his office closed at noon and that I should call him on Monday. 
I had been a patient of Dr. Olbina for 9 years and had spent thousands of dollars on crowns etc. 
There are plenty of good dentists in Fernandina. 
Don't go to Amelia Gentle Dentistry. 
Good location 
For a hotel like this you would expect some form of free internet. 
What you get is a $13/day charge to access the internet through a slow 512/512kb/s that you can only use to check email etc (Read: No downloading). 
Other than that the hotel is in a good location and the breakfast is great 
Make You Feel Like a Number 
Stay away from Kids First West Chester. 
You NEVER get a human on the phone. 
It's impossible to get an appointment. 
If you get caught in traffic and are a couple minutes late they make you re-schedule... for 6 weeks later. 
And worst of all your child feels like a number not a patient. 
Go somewhere else. 
Rcommended by bees, too! 
Highly recommended. 
Joe removed a wasp nest for our condominium building and we appreciated the environmentally friendly method and prompt, friendly and informative service. 
No spraying of pesticides! 
Very professional. 
Reasonable rate. 
We highly recommend Joe and his wasp removal service to individual home owners and condos. 
He knows his bees! 
Suzanne, Vancouver 
Very Accomodating 
We were in Springfield, IL for a family funeral from Kansas City. 
We arrived early and the staff was very accomodating to our families and the situation we were in. 
The rooms were very clean, including the microwave and refrigerator. 
This is a nice place, and I know we will return to meet my sister-in-law from Chicago!! 
GREAT SERVICE AND PEOPLE!! 
Deb Watson is the contact person and she and the rest of the staff were great!!! 
She continues to help me when needed even if I have a service question. 
Since I'm usually at work late Deb has stayed around to help me out when needed. 
This was after I brought the car!!!!! 
Service does not get any better!!!! 
Hidden Gem in Alpharetta 
This French born, French trained chef and his creative partners offer a taste fresh, locally sourced, fabulously prepared food in the most unlikely of locations. 
Try their weekend "tastings" which you can learn about by getting on their weekly email list. 
It's the best meal for the money you will find in all of metro Atlanta. 
Le petit is the best place to get your nails done! 
It is very clean, staff is friendly, and I have never waited! 
I go every other week for the shallac/gel manicure which is only $25 and it truly lasts 2 weeks! 
I love it. 
Pedicures are also great. 
Try this place out! 
I promise you will not be disappointed! 
Amazing Pictures at an Amazing Price 
Rendy is totally amazing. 
She gave me amazing pictures at an amazing price and made my wedding day so memorable. 
She was way easy to work with and made my wedding day so easy and she got some amazing pictures, not only of me, but of my family and friends. 
She is amazing. 
I would recommend her to anyone! 
So very delicious! 
Excellent! 
November 7, 2010 First time eating at Caffe Bella Italia and it was a wonderful experience. 
From the delectable Antipasto Misto to the Spaghetti alla Barese and the Parmigiana and ending with gelato, all was mouth watering. 
Too bad they were out of the Chocolate Lava Cake. 
Maybe next time they will have it. 
Service was excellent! 
Sandy 
Beware of Sharayu 
Hopless service, at the time of booking my car a lot was promised but delivered not even one tenth of what was promised. 
Apart from that in spite of my repeated attempts I could not get in touch with the manager to even lodge an official complaint. 
My advise to all is I have fallen into this trap ... pl ensure you dont!!! 
Course has come a long way!! 
HCC's new nine was a little shaky at first, but the NEW grounds superintendant has done wonders for the course!! 
The comment below definitely needs to be retracted! 
Come back and give HCC a second chance at least! 
It is a great course for local golfers to be proud of and all the comments in 2008 have been very positive!! 
Excellent Physiotherapists! 
Kusal Goonewardena and his team of Physios are unbelievable! 
I have been suffering from back pain for over 12 years and have been to numerous specialists, physios, osteos and chiros with no help. 
It took the Vigor team only 4 visits to get me feeling normal! 
And now 2 months after my last appointment I am better than ever. 
Thanks guys! 
They must have read these reviews and improved! 
My husband and I happened in on a whim. 
We sat in the front dining area, it was very cozy and pleasant. 
Our server was quite attentive and the food was fantastic. 
My husband has been a professional chef, so he is a good judge of quality food. 
This was a flavorful, enjoyable meal for both of us. 
Rude Rude Rude 
went in there and got my dog groomed came home to an uneven dog then took him back to get evened up what a mistake! 
she didnt even let me finish a sentence without insulting me and telling me how i should have said it!
i wont go back! 
she needs to develop a personality !
brought dog home and its all choppy now! 
It's helpful to know a quite a bit about bull fighting. 
If you watch a lot of fights (youtube) and research some of the history (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bullfighting) you will find yourself enjoying it a lot more! 
Also after seeing a handful of bullfights, I can say that they're a lot more enjoyable if you're smashed (BAC>= .15). 
All I can say is that I am glad I went in! 
The nurses are sweet as pie and the doctor is wonderful. 
This place is about healing, not making a buck.
The followup visit is FREE!! 
After going to the hospital and paying ER prices ... there is no way I won't be back here!! 
I will be back and telling EVERYONE about this clinic. 
THANK YOU!! 
I just like the fact that he was able to do the specific type of repair I wanted (a reball) and give me the longest warranty and even a lower price. 
Someone else I found that said they could do it but wanted to charge me more and give me less warranty. 
It was a no brainer really. 
I choose Console Pros and I'm happy I did. 
This place is bad. 
It's dark, dingy & dirty. 
The salads are limp and the rest of the food isn't any better (ok, the nachos are not too bad!) 
This place may have been something sometime; but it way past it "sell by date". 
I have eaten here twice in the past year and will not go back and cannot recommend it. 
Top range of bike, cheap prices, excellent a+++ 
yep they fixeded my thumpstar in 1 day. 
it wasent going an had a gear box problem.... 
i coldn't find anywere else local to fix it so i took it there and they fixed it for $150... 
thanks guys goes really well and thaks 4 the cheap price.. 
excellent, top guys a+++++ reccommend to anyone!!!!!!!!!! 
Hams on Friendly ... RIP 
This is the original Ham's restaurant, expanded into a regional chain in the late 80's -- but this one is no more. 
Victim of hard times and I suspect failing corporate management. 
According to news accounts, the company is struggling. 
I have many fond memories of my college evenings there long ago. 
So long Hams ... you will be missed. 
We are very pleased with the services of First Glass Window. 
Our window panes were so dirty that they needed a specialist to come and clean them. 
We called few companies before we decide to hire them. 
They came on time and completed their work quickly. 
We were very happy how clean looked our windows. 
If you have some problems with your windows, you should call them. 
Great help even near closing time! 
I came in to town for a week and forgot my trainers! 
Oh no!! 
I came in 30 min before close and the staff was super helpful. 
They spent a lot of time with me and got me into a great pair of shoes. 
I think they may even be better than the pair I have been using this past year! 
Thanks Run on! 
Great 
This is a perfect place to get your hair done. 
I have gone there time and time again whenever I need to get my hair done or when I want a haircut. 
When I get my hair done there, they use enough hairstyling products while it does not ruin your hair. 
The service is great and during weekends it tends to get busy, but the wait is worthwhile. 
Highly Recommend 
I have worked with Shannon as my massage therapist and intuitive bodyworker for years and have never been disappointed. 
No matter what state I am in when I arrive, I always leave feeling better. 
She has not only helped me through some challenging computer-work and sports related injuries, she was wonderful to work with throughout my pregnancy and beyond. 
I highly recommend her. 
Best Store In Boothbay Harbor 
What a fantastic store, I love this place. 
Not the same old stuff that all the other stores have. 
Their items are very unique, great quality, great prices. 
They also have the best tea I ever had, not at all like the junk you get at the grocery stores, I stock up when ever there because they are closed in the winter. 
The BEST 
Dr. Aster and her team have been a strong advocate in the health of both my daughters. 
Dr. Aster is very kind an gentle with the children, but also positive and to the point with the parents. 
She is and excellent doctor to have on one's team. 
Even though I live pretty far from her office I still make the trip so my daughters will have the BEST! 
My wife and I avoided doing some fairly simple electrical re-wiring in our home for several years due to overall hassle and cost involved. 
I finally called Matt from Bonafide and he made the project both easy for us and reasonable. 
He was prompt, knowledgable, friendly, clean and just an overall great guy who obviously cares about his business. 
I will reccommend his services however/whenever possible! 
Real pros 
I've had writer friends describe horror stories with their printers. 
I tell them: why not just go with these guys? 
Richard Joule and the gang are pros from start to finish. 
They set out to exceed your expectations. 
Already I'm considering future projects, and I can assure you that for my printing needs I will be choosing no other than Atlanta Paperback Book Printing. 
I have been here 3 times and all 3 times it has been bad! 
They have messed up my order and.... The food was just not good! 
I had sonic in many other palces but for some reason this sonic is always just covered in grease and not good... :( 
I hope they get there act together... 
I am going to give it one last chance in next few months and see?? 
I called them for an estimate and they INSULTED ME WHEN I ASK THEM QUESTIONS. 
THEY ARE VERY RUDE AND NASTY. 
PLEASE DON'T USE THIS MOVING COMPANY IF YOU DON'T WANT TO: CRY, HAVE TROUBLE AND A BAD EXPERIENCE ON THE DAY OF YOUR MOVE. 
THEY WILL GIVE YOU A LOW PRICE OVER THE PHONE AND ON THE DAY OF YOUR MOVE THEY WILL CHANGE THE PRICE, I GUARANTEE IT. 
You've Got Maids did a fabulous job cleaning my home. 
I am hiring them to come once a week now that they got my house to where they can maintain it for only an hour and a half every two weeks! 
Satisfactory for sure with the sercvice! 
Beats having one "cleaning lady" who took twice as long and did not do a very through job like the "maids" did! 
This place has the best baby and childrens clothes. 
Especially high end keep sake sort of clothing that you just cant find in a lot of stores. 
It is all very unique and you wont find any other baby wearing the same stuff. 
I spent quite a bit because I spoil my little princess. 
Afterall she will only be a baby for so long I figure why not enjoy it. 
Antique Lighting, Fixtures, Chicago 
Great place for Antique Lighting! 
I visited their huge Chicago lighting showroom and all I have to say is WOW!! 
Lots of collections, many antique light fixtures, Chandeliers, custom lighting etc. 
I think they have the largest collection for Chandeliers Chicago. 
Antiques, Vintage, Contemporary & Modern Chandeliers. 
I would recommend them for any custom lighting or Lighting Repair and Restoration Chicago 
Great Food Awesome food Awesome service 
I wanted to try someplace new again. 
This place rocked. 
Brought my wife Deb with me and she like the Fried Crab Wontons and said they were good.. 
We also had the BBQ Spare Ribs.. good also. 
I ordered the MOO SHU pork and it was great.. 
I also ordered the Neptune Platter which was awesome... so this place gets 5 out of 5 stars. 
DO NOT GO HERE!!! 
I went to get my nails filled Friday, by Monday 2 were broken. 
I was not happy with the way they looked, very wavy, uneven edges, and with the exception of 1, there is a dip in the center of each nail. 
I also had a pedicure, and they cut my nails too short, one of my big toes looks like its getting infected. 
No way. 
I'm certainly no expert on asian food in fact not even a lover of Vietnamese food but I wanted to try the real things here at A Dong. 
Cold, slimy, tasteless however is the same in all languages and foods. 
Not good, not great, and again another disappointment in Central Iowa. 
How do these places stay in business. 
This town needs some food soul and this is not it. 
Worth Every Penny 
My girlfriend and I ate at The Grill last night, and our experience was amazing. 
Everything we ordered was prepared to perfection, and was presented perfectly. 
The asparagus, seared tuna, and lobster tail were the best we ever had. 
Then the desserts came, and they were hands down the best dessert we ever had. 
I will sum it up with, it was worth every penny! 
BEST CHINESE RESTAURANT EVER!!! 
It was the best Chinese food I have ever had. 
All the food tasted excellent, and with the new renovation of chairs and the bathroom, it is awesome. 
The people working their are also extremely polite and friendly. 
Every time I go, Kevin, the manager, will always remember my family and I. 
Overall, it is very family oriented, and I recommend it to everyone!!! 
Furnace repair 
Tiger Heating is awesome. 
I had John and Dustin working feverishly to get my exhaust motor replaced. 
These guys were absolutely professional. 
John was here in 45 minutes after I called on a 10 below zero early Sunday morning. 
If you need someone to help you out with your heating problems, I DEFINITELY would call TIGER HEATING and AIR. 
Absolutely a wonderful company. 
My family and I thank you!!!!!!!!!! 
They Suck 
Go somewhere else... 
Wanted to buy a Rhino 700 and a Grizzly 700. 
After searching high and low for a salesman, I was treated like dirt, and we left. 
Parts department blows, Service department is even worse. 
I live 10 minutes from Cycle City, but I Drove 50 mile south to Peachstate Powersports in LaGrange, dealt with the owner, Levi, and was well taken care of. 
Professional and inspiring 
Nigel from Nidd Design has always provided a first class service, from his advice and professionalism to the quality of his design drawings and planning applications. 
His knowledge and expertise help smooth the way with any planning application, ensuring compliance with the building regulations. 
Once you have met Nigel you will not want to work with anyone else. 
He really does turn your dreams into reality for your home! 
We came at around 730 and they close at 8 and wanted to try the specials but they were out for the day so I would say go way before they close. 
Got the crab rangoon which was great, tofu with cabbage which was spicy but good and shrimp satay which was also good. 
Def going to come back and try this place again. 
Bea was really nice and asked how the food was. 
Cute place also 
As a native southern Californian I can tell you that this is not authentic Mexican food. 
However, I still like this place a lot. 
Esp. the mole, tortilla soup, and guacamole. 
Margaritas are alright. 
My only complaint is the QUESO. 
It used to be fabulous, why did you guys change it?? 
Queso should not be watery :( ..... 
***update*** NEVER MIND! 
They fixed the queso! 
Thankyouthankyou 
There are so many wonderful great places to dine in houston....don't.waste your time here. 
I had the morelias enchiladas. 
The sauce was dry and the enchiladas did not taste good.at all. 
In fact my friend vomited after our meal. 
Maybe we ordered the wrong dish but my experience here was poor. 
Service was okay not great, we came for a late lunch. 
I don't recommend this place. 
Skylight repair 
My skylight was making a horrible noise when the wind blew. 
James Bateman came the day I called and fixed the problem quickly and efficiently. 
He also inspected my entie roof to see if there was anything else that needed attention. 
He called the next day to see if everything was to my satisfaction. 
When the next hailstorm blows through, I will not hesitate to contact James at Team Texas Construction. 
tricky short guy 
The new management is tricky and talk you into getting video rental agreement. 
To my surprise $20 deposit.... New movies not on shelf..under the counter for Telugu Speaking people only... or people who spend $30 or more groceries.. 
That did it for me..no more Raina's. 
Besides parking is a pain..cramped and un-ruly with Kumon Parents next door....gives me heebee gee bees' 
Small Firm with Great Service 
Bloom Legal was really attentive to my problem, and Seth Bloom took the time to help me understand the legal issue I was dealing with. 
I much preferred the one-on-one service here to the experiences I've had with bigger offices and firms. 
While I hope I don't have any need for a lawyer anytime soon, if I do I'll definitely use this firm again. 
Used their service for the first time and was immediately impressed by their professionalism (received a phone call soon after order was placed to confirm details) and the subsequent delivery of my gift (To Split, Croatia) was as requested. 
The gift itself was exactly as described and pictured in the catalogue and of the highest standard. 
Would highly recommend to anyone requiring overseas gift delivery. 
Danny (Australia) 
I LOVE MY GYM! 
FITNESS UNLIMITED is a second home to a lot of us gym members who work out daily. 
If you are serious about working out in a non-commercial like atmosphere then you have chosen the best place to be. 
This is the most humble gym you will every step into.... if you dare to work on your body don't be surprised when you see how addicting going to FITNESS UNLIMITED can be!! 
Over-rated... 
This restaurant is over-rated. 
It is hard to find...and the mexican food is bland, almost equivalent to eating out of a can. 
The service is poor...
I asked for a fried egg on my enchiladas...and did not get it.! 
Secondly, the enchladas did not come with enchilada sauce..but chili...like Hormel's chili..the cheese was American cheese! 
The Chili Relleno..had no batter on it. 
I googled restaurants in the area and Fuji Sushi came up and reviews were great so I made a carry out order of : L 17. 
Mixed Tempura.....................8.25 Shrimp or vegetable tempura & salad. 
I was very happy with the customer service and even more please with the portion size, to go box set up and quality of the food for the price. 
I'm very happy and will definitely dine in and carry out again. 
Learn from a Cesar Gracie black belt and former ufc fighter! 
When i say jiu-jitsu or mma i mean it! 
Best jiu-jitsu mma in Santa Rosa and i have the experience and belt to back it up! 
When you come to ncfa you will see a real instructor that teaches and trains everyday! 
If your coach has no fights and you never see him train and sweat something is wrong! 
Dave Terrell www.norcalfightingalliance.com 
Good Pizza at a good price 
I just moved nearby and have tried several of the local places, this was the first one and I should have just stuck with it. 
The pizza is usually pretty good, the only bad one we got was on a Friday night and it just needed to be cooked a little more, but it was still good. 
Their BBQ chicken pizza is one of the better ones I have ever had. 
HORRIBLE SERVICE!!! 
Absolute horrible service from the parts department. 
They are very rude over the phone and in person. 
They talk down to you like they are supreme beings, if you hate your job so much then quit!! 
How these guys can get away with being so rude with people is mind blowing. 
I will NEVER do business with Sun Toyota again. 
Thank god there are plenty of Toyota dealerships to choose from in this city. 
this is a good place 
I have been here before and the service was absoulutely great. 
They had a great selection of colors to choose from and their seats are super comfty. 
I enjoy going there although i've only been there once, i will be returning toda to recieve a pair of french tips and i will only go to the best and to me the best is here. 
i reccomend you to go and enjoy their wonderful hospitality. 
Anna Marie and Govind are very sweet people, and the minute you steep into their school, the calm loving atmosphere takes over, and tension and worries stay outside in the street, whether or not you pick them up again after class is probably a question of practice. 
A wonderful place, if you want more than just the physical side of yoga. 
Give yourself the gift of trying this place, to see if it fits you... 
They don't seem to be interested in selling cars. 
Went there yesterday: we are trying to decide between two different Honda models, so we wanted to test-drive both back to back. 
The salesperson refused! 
Claimed he was too busy for two test drives. 
We were the only customers there! 
Don't waste time, just drive 10 minutes more down to Stevens Creek, they actually do try to help their customers there! 
ATE HERE A COUPLE TIMES. 
IT IS NOT A HIGH END STEAK HOUSE, MORE OF THE CUISINE BRETT ENJOYS IN MISSISSIPPI. 
SO, IF YOU WANT A BURGER AND FRIES, WELL, IT IS OK. 
IF YOU WANT A LITTLE CAJUNISH FOOD - IT IS GOOD. 
IF YOU WANT A STEAK, WELL, THIS IS NOT THE BEST IN GREEN BAY. 
OVERALL DECENT BUT IF YOU ARE EXPECTING A RUTH CHRIS TYPE STEAK, THIS IS NOT IT. 
Eulogic 
Good place to be on a Sunday Night. 
The beers were good, nice choice of beers as well, and as usual the mussels were great, the place upstairs is a nice addition to the bar downstairs. 
Filled up on too much beer and hence cannot comment on the food. 
But the menu had standard stuff that one would get at a Belgian Tavern. 
If you are a handcraft beer person, this is a fantastic place to be. 
Perfect Location plus 
I moved into the Tanglewood Apartments in late 2008 and it's been a refreshing change. 
I used to live at Meadowrun and that was a nightmare. 
The manager - Tiffany - is actually very nice so I'ma bit surprised by other comments. 
She's very reachable and she has always responded quickly to any questions or requests. 
Plus she plans a monthly breakfasts and other events at the clubhouse which is a nice added benefit. 
great service/deals - support this local business 
I have used these guys for new snows, fixing lots of flats, used replacement tires, and oil changes. 
They have the best prices locally and good customer service. 
One guy is a little surley, but who gives a crap as long as your car's work is outstanding. 
AND they're usually able to help you as a walk-in, and they're fast. 
Overall-good stuff. 
Another great business bites the dust! 
The best cakes EVER! 
A bit pricey, so I didn't go very often, but it was always a treat when I did. 
The prices were worth what I got. 
I'm assuming they are completely out of business since I can't find any contact information. 
I'm hoping the bakers continue to do their baking out of another place, because it would be a shame not to have these cakes any longer. 
Super nice people, really good food 
What I love most about this place, other than the food, is that eating here makes you feel like you're in a small town rather than Baltimore. 
The owners are really nice, they serve good food at a good price, and the option to eat outside on the deck (esp on the weekend whether there is hardly any traffic) is great. 
One of my top 5 places to eat in Baltimore. 
Overpriced 
This place is identical to the Youngstown Sports Grille, so I imagine they are owned/operated by the same people. 
The food is mediocre at best, and largely overpriced given the portion size and quality. 
Don't even get me started on how expensive it is to drink there. 
I have ate here 3 times since they first opened, and the service has been poor each time, the staff always comes across as somewhat rude and slow. 
Apps 4 Salad 3 Entree 3.5 Wine 5 (NOV 07) 
Enjoyed this cozy little spot with a group of 8 folks. 
Service was excellent. 
Food was excellent. 
Wine was excellent. 
I was feeling the need for some fish so I had the salmon which was very good but the steaks looked amazing and if I am in town again, I'll definitely order a steak. 
A perfect place for a romantic dinner. 
Lots of "pretty people" dining inside. 
Great staff. 
Very helpful!!!! 
They interviewed me, gave me tests in the software I included on my resume, and placed me in a position that I kept for several years. 
Re-interviewed and am going on interviews for a new job. 
I'm really thankful for the folks at HR Office. 
They are dependable, have great connections in the community, and are a great resource for finding a job. 
I highly recommend them to all of my friends!!!!! 
Great experience - consider checking out their puppies before buying from a breeder! 
I adopted a 3.5 month old yellow lab last winter from the Dumb Friends League. 
The staff was very helpful in finding the right dog for me and the care my pup received was outstanding. 
If you are on the lookout for a pure breed pup don't forget to check out the shelters! 
My pup has a wonderful temperment and has been a wonderful addition to my family! 
Food good, service poor 
No silverware, asked for a spoon for my sons mac and cheese ended up having to use my tea spoon. 
Asked for bar-b-que sauce never got it. 
Never checked back with us once we got our food. 
Had to go the the bus boys station ourselves to get napkins. 
Only one server, too buys talking with others I guess. 
Food was good, but service means a lot to me. 
Dr. Chao you are the best dentist I have ever had. 
You are knowledgeable, professional, gentel and kind. 
I wish I had you as my dentist early on in my life - maybe my teeth would have been a lot better then they are now, However I am glad you are my dentist now. 
Even though you are expensive. 
Thank you for helping to preserve my teeth. 
You are meticulous in your work and it shows in my smile. 
Con Garage 
I brought my car in for a simple emissions test. 
I guess they figured me for an easy mark, and tried to explain that my car wouldn't pass unless I replaced a hose. 
Ten minutes later, I took my car down the street and it passed the emissions test with flying colors. 
If you're a fan of herpes, being ripped off, and child molesters, this is the garage for you. 
If not, go somewhere else. 
Rude service 
even though I have never tried hoa salon but I agree with other reviewers that they are rude. 
I called and asked about the price for hair updo and the receptionist or owner who aswered the phone refused to tell me, or even just give me an approximate price range. 
He told us to stop by the salon and then he will tell us the price. 
What kind of rude service is that? 
I don't want to waste my time with them. 
Top notch eats! 
So here we are in Manson. 
Manson? 
Yes, Manson. 
Right near Chelan. 
Aka Nowheresville. 
And this litttle gem of a 7-table restaurant is a complete and utterly wonderful surprise. 
A short but wide-ranging menu executed with innovative perfection in a cozy hole in the wall just off the main street. 
Fantastic food served without pretense, very reasonably priced wine selections. 
A great place to go for dinner after a day of wine tasting. 
Excellent Service and Reasonable Prices 
Boutique stores dealing in children's clothing/gifts are often outrageously priced (who wants to pay 40 dollars for a newborn onesie?) 
but I was pleasantly surprised to find that the Purple Goose's prices are reasonable (for the SAME products found at other area boutiques, the prices were 20-25% cheaper). 
The service was also excellent - friendly, helpful and informative without being overbearing. 
Will definitely return. 
Consistantly poor 
A lack of organisation, coupled with the distain for its customers, makes this the worst rental agency I have used. 
Chasing them on issues from the day I moved in (many of them still unresolved as I left) to all sorts of farcical issues with funds, after I left. . . . as soon as I could. 
If you must use them, be vigilant and be ready to push, if you can go elsewhere then I would. 
AMAZING NIGHT- Great Party Spot!! 
Went to the Willow Lounge this past weekend for dinner and drinks...place is awesome. 
Had to keep in mind that the A/C broke, I feel bad it was their opening! 
Anyway, once that is fixed, this place will be amazing. 
Drinks were awesome, prices reasonable, and staff friendly. 
This is an awesome date spot that the area SERIOUSLY needs. 
Check out The Willow Lounge, youll be happy! 
Its been a few years since I have been to Ipanema. 
But my wife and I first went there thinking it would be Brazilian food (think lots of meat), but it turned out to be a vegan restaurant! 
And, I can say, this was one of my favorite places to eat in all of Richmond. 
Amazing! 
Don't let the nondescript building entrance fool you, these are some creative and talented chefs...two thumbs way, way up! 
Excellent food, fantastic wait staff 
I recently threw a surprise birthday party for my wife at Fraiser's. 
We had 30 guests for the event, and everyone came away from the evening impressed with not only the food, but the outstanding service as well. 
The management was easy to deal with during the planning stages, and the execution by the kitchen and wait staff was flawless. 
I highly recommend Fraiser's for anyone planning a special event for friends, family or business. 
FANTASTIC STORE!!! 
I came upon this store as the building caught my eye. 
It's located in the huge HONKA Log Homes building, by Walmart off of Evergreen Parkway. 
The store was decorated with furnishings & accessories. 
The friendly crew working was great & very helpful. 
This store is what Colorado is all about. 
Also, I purchased some furniture last year and all has been great! 
It's durability & look was perfect and I will definitely be adding to my collection soon! 
Lovely People, Great Hats 
I was saddened to see the reviews that claimed World Hats Mart has poor service. 
It led me to believe that the reviewers simply had difficulty tolerating people with strongly-accented English. 
The husband and wife who run this spot are lovely people. 
We have had many conversations with them and they have always been extremely patient with me as I tried on multiple hats in search of the right costumes for my magic act. 
I recommend them highly! 
DONT ever go there, not even if your car flips. 
Their service sucks to start off with, people are cruel and ignorant. 
I'm compeltly dissatisfied with their service and their products. 
They DO NOT have a return policy and even if their product SUCKS, they will NOT take it back! 
DO NOT EVER GO HERE. 
I prefer Advanced auto parts over this crappy place with the meanest people. 
And they THRIVE to get a customer. 
DO NOT go here..thank you 
Horrible 
I have been growing my hair out for 1 year plus and went in to get 1 inch taken off. 
I walked out with 5 inch long hair on the top, 2 inch long hair on the sides, and 1.5 in the back. 
My hair is uneven and it looks rediculous. 
This woman should be working in supercuts...if that. 
This was a terrible experience and I hope that no one else goes through that. 
Do your self a favor and do not go to this establishment. 
The worst Burger King restaurant!!! 
I generally like the BK over the other fast serving restaurants; however, I regreted to visit this restaurant at my town. 
This is a shame of my adorable town, Branford. 
I ordered a kid meal with a milk and found a bottle was half opened already. 
I asked them to change it but they rudely said that it was okay. 
Disgusting french fries is very best menu. 
Don't go, or you will learn how to waste your money. 
Disappointed 
The Bad: I was at Napa recently and was unpleasantly surprised at poor waiter svce and subpar food. 
We were a party of 4 and none of us were particularly pleased with our dishes. 
Napa is all about wine but gives very short descriptions of the wines on their lists. 
I found my initial selection satisfactory but the wine flight we chose to be poorly composed. 
If you must go ask lots of questions about your selections since your expectations may as high as mine were. 
Highly Recommended 
We walked in to pick our little man at 10 minutes to closing and heard laughter from kids and the staff. 
The facilities are more than adequate and the staff are just phenomenal. 
Their sense of humour and calmness when dealing with the little ones amazes me every time I walk in. 
We have since moved slightly further away from the centre but it's worth the extra travel, as the care provided exceeds our expectations... especially after a few horrendous daycare experiences elsewhere. 
HORRIBLE!!!!! 
This has to be some of the worst pizza I have ever had the misfortune of ordering. 
The crust was lopsided, thicker on one side than the other. 
It actually had a hole in one of the slices. 
There was minimal cheese and sauce and it completely lacked flavor. 
I know New York pizza and this is not it!! 
This was nothing like New York style pizza!!!. 
I love pizza and this was a complete and utter disappointment!! 
I would not suggest this pizza to anyone!!! 
best quote ever My gate was stuck halfway open so I calledA CLASS Garage Doors Dr Services. 
They came to my house in no time and started working on the gate. 
They were very friendly and were able to explain me exactly what was wrong with it. 
Once they fixed it they answetred all of my questions with no hesitations and then gave me the best quote ever. 
I know that if my garage door needs to be repaired, I will be calling A CLASS Garage Doors 
You will be happy at this store! 
Allen Tire was recommended by friend after my having bad tire experiences in Temecula. 
The store manager, Jim Smith, made an excellent tire recommendation for my newly acquired Lexus. 
Tires were the right price and now the car feels like it is riding on rails around turns. 
The store is clean, run very professionally and a pleasure to be in. 
They know their job and you do not have to watch them to be sure everything is done right. 
Easiest Time I ever had purchasing a car! 
Excellent service, Not only did they get the exact car I wanted win in 48 hours but the sales man also took me out to lunch. 
Very kind and reliable. 
I highly recommend this dealership if you would not like to hassle on price and receive friendly service. 
I have since purchased two cars from this dealership, The first one was from Phillip and the second was from Richard. 
Both were excellent sales men who put my needs first. 
This place has done a great job of taking care of the usual maintenance on my hooptie. 
I also never have to wait long for a yearly inspection sticker...and never get the usual excuses other shops always gave me..."the inspection guy isn't here today"....for example. 
Today I went into Kwik Kar and there were two cars in front of me for inspection...but I was still out of there pretty quick...barely had time to read a chapter in my book. 
Extremely helpful and professional 
As first-time home buyers, my husband and I found Stephanie Fairchild at Prudential Steamboat Realty, extremely helpful. 
She worked with us for over a year, helping us find our perfect home. 
Stephanie's knowledge of the market and properties in our price range, made us feel secure in our decision to buy when we did. 
We would highly recommend Stephanie to anyone looking for a home in the Yampa Valley. 
We appreciated her patience, knowledge and kindness! 
Great Barber 
Firstly, the other reviewer clearly has never been to Nick's, or he would know that Nick only charges $13 for a haircut which is pretty much industry standard. 
I have been going to Nick for 5 months now precisely because he does pay attention to detail. 
I have terrible hair and he really takes his time to make it look right. 
Some of the younger kids that work there are a bit sub par, but if you wait for Nick... you'll be good. 
UGH!!! 
Got some nice "freshly baked" fruit squares, a personal favorite of mine. 
Took a bite, it tasted odd. 
Flipped the square over and saw it riddled with green mold!!!! 
Ugh!! 
I called the store and the clerk giggled, and agreed that it was gross, but said it was not her problem. 
She also refused to get a manager. 
I left my number, or tried to anyway. 
Same clerk had considerable difficulty taking down a number. 
I'll never go back there again 
For cheap Chinese food, this is the place to go. 
I used to eat at places like New China or Green Buffet in Troy, MO - nothing terrible but not that great. 
Now, I won't eat fast food Chinese unless it's from this place. 
The best value I've found from a Chinese restaurant. 
I don't live in Lake St. Louis anymore, but deliveries were always correct and the service courteous. 
Now I have to be in the area to get some lovin' :sadface: 
Amazing Experience! 
My experience was amazing at Providence Aesthetics and Medical Spa. 
Jana Kueck was nothing but professional. 
She makes you feel like you are the most important person in the world. 
Jana made me feel very comfortable. 
Provided me with warm blanket and has soft music playing. 
Walking in the door you are made to feel happy and relaxed. 
Equipment is state of the art. 
I would reccomend anyone to go see Jana Kueck and Robin Talley to see all the many procedures they have to offer. 
Dave is a patient and methodical teacher, who has a great ear and sensitivity for his students' passion and the direction they want their lessons to take. 
Also, he loves teaching so much, his price is unbeatable, but that does not change his level of skill. 
Dave has much to offer. 
In just 2-3 focused lessons, I'm already now capable of picking up new songs off YouTube guitar how to videos and am even writing my own orginals with confidence! 
~Jason 
We love our new roof! 
We would like to thank you for the roofing job you did on our home. 
Everything was done on a timely manner and things were cleaned and picked up every day when the crew was done. 
We also liked the way that Ray checked on the job everyday. 
And when the job was done every thing was cleaned up and hauled off that same day. 
We would not hesitate to use Spears Roofing again. 
We have already recommended you to some of our friends! 
OMFG 
I FUCKING HATE THIS PLACE EVERY TIME i GO THIS HOT CHICK SHOWS UP AND i MEAN REALLY HOT BUT SHE IS LIKE REAAAALLY DUMB AND THEN THEIR IS THIS OTHER CHICK THAT IS REALY UGLY BUT SHE IS LIKE SUPER SMART SHE COULD BE A SCIENTIST, BUT THEN THEIR IS THIS STONER WHO ALWAYS COMES HERE HIGH AND HE ALWAYS BRINGS HIS FUCKING DOG WHO IS SO HIGH FROM THE SECOND HAND SMOKE I THINK HE IS TRYING TO TALK. 
ANYWAY WE DRIVE AROUND IN MY VAN AND SOLVE MYSTERYS AND SHIT 
AMAZINGLY YUMMY! 
I just got back from france yesterday and just missed the food already! 
My sister in law told me about this amazing new crepe place in town, I was so excited I just wanted to go and test it out for my self! 
Their customer service was perfect! 
Their Food was better then anything I had ever tasted. 
EVEN IN FRANCE! 
I would highly recommend this place to anyone looking for a great atmosphere, amazing food, and great customer service! 
Thank you Roll UP Crepes! 
This is one of the worst places I have stayed, we cut out stay short and went to the Mulberry. 
Even though they still charge you the days you booked but won't use, it is worth the get the hell out of this crap hole. 
The whole experience shows a hotel managed by what must be a 2 star hotel manager. 
Bad service starting from the front desk. 
The best person is the valet. 
Short of that, avoid this place, as a silver Marriott member, this is a disgrace. 
BEST PLACE IN AMES 
I lived here for two years when the prices were a little lower :) The places are very nice and clean, and in great condition! 
I really enjoyed the staff at Wessex, also the manager Sherri was always very nice and helpful. 
The fitness center was GREAT! 
The only problem that I had in 2 years of living there was that the walls are pretty thin, sometimes I could here my neighbors conversations. 
I would recommend these apartments to anybody! 
I absolutely LOVED living there. 
The Best Service Ever!! 
I have never had better service. 
My car broke down and roadside towed my vehicle to Sussman Kia. 
They squeezed me in and had me back up and running in no time. 
Everyone was pleasant and very helpful. 
The service department even gave me a ride home and picked me up when my car was finished. 
The advisor kept me up to date and informed on the progress of my vehicle. 
I give this dealer an A+! 
I will definitely be bringing my car back for service. 
HEAVEN ON EARTHHHHHHH!!!! 
MUST TRY!!! 
A+++ 
THIS PLACE IS THE BEST. 
I HATED SUSHI BEFORE BUT NOW I CANT STOP EATTING IT!!!!!!! 
NICE SERVICE, AND EXCELLENT FOOD. 
EVERYTHING IN HERE SEEMS TO AMAZE ME!!! 
THEIR GRILL DISHES ARE OUTTA THIS WORLD AND SUSHI IS JUST FABULOUS!!!! 
I EAT HERE AT LEAST 5 DAYS A WEEK. 
THEY HAVE EXCELLENT SUSHI CHEF SPECIAL ROLLS FOR A FAIR PRICE AND SO IS THE GRILL ORDERS. 
A++++ !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
JUNO AND OPEN I LOVE YOU GUYS!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
[no homo] :D 
friendly, fine food 
The one-star review from 2005 is out of date. 
There was a change of ownership a couple of years ago and service is both quick and extremely friendly. 
The food continues to be very good -- deli sandwiches, homemade soups, fresh salads. 
The atmosphere may not be for everyone. 
It is a bustling place where separate parties are seated at the same table (as in many European cafes), but if you are OK with that, the food is very good. 
Love the soups. 
The New Italian Kid on the Block 
Another Italian restaurant in Collingswood? 
Do we need another one? 
Only if it is of the quality of That's Amore. 
The menu has the usual but then they step it up another notch. 
The arancini di riso (risotto fritters) are not to be missed. 
Chicken saltimboca was excellent and then there's the chocolate mousse that comes straight from heaven. 
Pay extra attention to the appetizers - the next time I go there I'm planning on ordered a few instead of an entree. 
Auto Towing is one of the best towing services I have used. 
The first time I used them they arrived on time and towed car for me to the destination I needed. 
The auto mechanics that work for Auto Towing are very friendly and informative and answered any question I had. 
They have towed car for me a few times and I am always very satisfied with this services. 
If you are looking for towing services that can offer you a good towed car service, then Auto Towing is the company for you. 
A very satisfied new customer! 
As a very satisfied new customer, I wholeheartedly recommend United Air Duct Cleaning. 
They are professional, knowledgeable, and take meticulous care and pride in accomplishing their work. 
Not only were my wife and I very pleased, but I also had the air duct quality tested professionally by the home inspector that I regularly use, before and after United Air Duct performed their work. 
Based on the test results, the home inspector stated that the quality of their job was “excellent”. 
The Best Breakfast in Solana Beach! 
We love T's Cafe! 
Without a doubt the best place to grab a tall bloody mary and some eggs benedict. 
T's has been a North County landmark for thirty years and with good reason. 
Family owned and operated makes sure the atmosphere is relaxed and the food home-cooked with style. 
I highly recommend picking up a jug of their homemade bloody mary mix - definitely the best. 
If you've been to North County, chances are it's in your favorites list already. 
Prominent Builders NJ 
Prominent Builders in New Jersey are one the best building contractors, I was referred to them by my friend, I am so glad I used them for my Home renovation, and addition. 
They were very professional, respectful, completed the Job on time, and well below my budget. 
Mike one of owners was awesome, he explained the detailed plan, and executed on time, I am always going use them and refer them to many friends I can because of the great job they did me. 
Great Dude Cut! 
Great service, cool vibe, impeccable style. 
I'ma guy with tricky hair so getting that right is job #1. 
After going through 5 other places I finally found Janice at Alta Moda. 
Not only was it a good cut but my wife and friends comment on my hair every time I leave...saying it's the best look I've ever had. 
Either I suck at my own style or Janice is a genius. 
Looks like there's a lot of talent in this place. 
Worth every penny. 
My Favorite place at Wildwood 
I have been going to the Wildwood, NJ for over 30 years for summer vacations and always call the Madrid first. 
I rated it 5 stars. 
I am not saying it is a 5 star hotel. 
I am saying when comparing all other hotels in Wildwood, this hotel has everything that we are looking for. 
It is the hospitality from Tom and staff, that makes it feel like a 5 star hotel in the middle of the beach. 
We prefer the layout of rooms and it is always clean. 
When in Scordia, Sicily 
If ever in Sicily please take the time to visit Anna Maria Jose Mudo and her familia. 
They are and always will be the nicest people in Sicily that you will meet. 
You will also have the pleasure of learning the Italiano language. 
You will also have the experience of learning the bella Sicilian culture, that I have fallen in luv with. 
I will 4-ever be eternally grateful for their hospitality and luv that my Sicilian family showed me when I was there for 3 years. 
Luv always.. 
I've never felt the need to write a review or make a complaint before, but after the way I was spoken to by a member of staff at the kennels (whose name I believe to be Mrs Closs) I would now not recommend this business to anybody. 
If the animals are treated in the same way the customers are treated then this leaves a lot to be desired! 
Nobody should be spoken to like that regardless of how bad their day may have been or what may be going on in their private lives! 
Best Car Dealer in TX 
I purchased a nissan from this dealship. 
The sales men were very knowledgeable about every aspect of every car we looked at. 
They were very patient and helpful from showing the cars to doing the paperwork. 
The paperwork was a very easy and smooth. 
They tried to run my credit score as less as possible so it won't hurt my score. 
Overall, I was very happy with the customer service and my purchase. 
If you're looking to buy a car, definitely give them a call. 
They have a huge inventory. 
I have been a patient a NW hospital and it was great. 
I have also had an 80 yr old that I take of sent to the ER and long stays in the hospital. 
Yes, we had to wait, but ER is a triage system that takes the most life threatening cases first. 
Any ER would be the same. 
As far as being treated like a drug seeker, that has not been my experience. 
As a nurse I know about drug seekers. 
This is a great hospital and even better since it became part of the UW system. 
Wonderful Experience 
I had immense pain on a Sunday morning, with friends and family telling me that I would never find a Dentist on a Sunday. 
Dr. Taylor was not only available on a Sunday, but also was able to immediately take care of me. 
He was incredibly informative about the options I had, giving me opinions on different treatments to choose from. 
Coming from a person who hates the dentist in general, Dr. Taylor was the best! 
He really made the visit a pain free one with excellent service! 
I would recommend him to everyone! 
HORRIBLE 
This school is the worst one i've ever been to. 
I attended it for 2 years, and that was enough. 
There's holes everywhere in the ceiling, sewage constantly leaks through the ceiling, and the whole condition of the school is horrible. 
The staff and the Principal are rediculous, they don't listen to any input, and they make up rediculous rules ( They banned backpacks, because a teacher TRIPPED OVER a student's). 
The education is horrible at best, do society a favor, and do NOT send your student here. 
Excellent customer service and quality work. 
They went the extra mile to repair my cowboy boots-- they had to have a special kind of paper that looked like wood grain to fix the heels. 
That was 4 years ago. 
I haven't been able to find a shoe repair place in Seattle since that has been able to do it. 
(I've been through at least 5 places already.) 
If I had time to drive to Tacoma before they closed during the work week, I would just so I could get those boots fixed properly again. 
So Handy for Local La Jolla Stuff - Especially for Finding Residential Numbers 
Since moving back from college and trying to settle roots in the Village, I have referred to the La Jolla Blue Book for a ton of local numbers. 
The white pages allowed me to get in touch with parents of my high school friends so that I could track people down one by one and the restaurant section is basically my cookbook. 
It's really cool that so many local businesses are found so quickly in one place and I want to spread the word. 
THX:-) 
The staff do occasionally get game info correct, but if your looking fot a good game and aren'ta nerd, dont ask them. 
The last time I did that I was suggested to buy oblivion when I told them I was looking for a fps. 
I knew what it was and told the guy that it wasn'ta fps. 
He tried to tell me it was when I told asked him if he knew what fps stood for and he had no clue. 
Overall they aren't very knowledge about the type of games are on the market. 
First and Last time we'll eat there 
My friend and I went there for lunch today. 
Neither one of us had ever been - so we thought we'd try it. 
BIG MISTAKE - The food was tasteless and cold. 
We both kept trying to find something we liked. 
The only thing I found edible were the potato wedges, I finally gave up, he kept trying - he found the fried wantons to be OK - His Mongolian bowl was awful. 
Would NOT recommend this place to anyone - in fact - save your money and go somewhere else. 
Liquidweb.com Rocks!!! 
I am not a client of liquidweb.com, but one of my friend called Steven is the client having several websites. 
I work with him and since past 6 years he is hosting his websites to Liquidweb. 
As I have gone through many reviews sites to see if any provider is providing better services or not, and I have realized that there were many good reviews about Liquidweb also Steven never faced any server issues in his whole hosting. 
The kind of support they provide is simply great!!! 
I would like to host my upcoming website to Liquidweb.com 
Hino Dealer of the Year 
Congratulations Prestige Hino! 
You have been awarded the converted Hino Dealer of the Year! 
Each of you should be proud of your massive contributions throughout the year! 
Major Awards – Overall Hino dealer of the year. 
Overall Hino finance dealer of the year. 
Major Awards – Market leader overall, Dandenong PMA, sales. 
Market leader medium duty, sales. 
Well done to Anthony and the team! 
Bronze award service excellence, metro. 
Well done to Brendan and the team! 
Gold award parts excellence, metro. 
Well done to Jason and the team! 
simple but perfect 
IF you want flashy fancy food stacked high with lots of fussy garnishes, this is not the place for you. 
If you want perfectly executed simple dishes that feature a few exquisite ingredients, you'll love Vetri. 
Hands-down the best pasta and gnocchi I've ever eaten (and I've eaten a lot). 
The antipasti were amazing, the wines were mind-blowing, the service couldn't have been better. 
I've dined at lots of high-end restaurants and I've never before felt my money was so well spent. 
Great Prices, Great service! 
I've been to this shop twice (once for an inspection and again for an oil change) and they truly live up to their name: Discount! 
They have all kind of coupons available for car washes, oil changes, state inspection, etc. 
The thing is, you still get high quality service at nicely discounted rates! 
There is even free coffee and bottles of water if you'd like. 
The owner is a pleasant guy and I would trust my car with him or any of his workers. 
Top notch, all the way! 
David is amazing 
David is the most helpful and creative photographer that I have used. 
He is willing to do whatever you need from him without hesitation. 
He was patient and adapted when everything didn't go according to schedule on my wedding day. 
Both the engagement and wedding pictures that he took for us we absolutely amazing. 
He got the pictures back to me quickly. 
I would highly recommend David to anyone. 
He will exceed your expectations! 
He doesn't just take pictures he makes art out of them and you won't even notice that there's a camera there. 
Not so great 
My husband just got a bike there as a gift he's only had it a month. 
It's a nice bike and it cost a lot of money. 
But just this week a peddle broke. 
He took it back and they would not honor a warranty and said it was his fault because of his shoes?? 
So they were going to charge him for new peddles and proceeded to put them on without even telling him the price. 
Which was very expensive. 
He asked for a different pair instead and they only gave him five dollars off?? 
Trek is not so great 
Only Concerned With Money 
I have been getting my treatments for a few months now and have seen some results but not up to the standards that I was told I should expect. 
The people there attempt to come across and professional and nice, but I was disappointed with their customer service. 
Never miss an appointment because they will charge you the price of a treatment, even if you had an emergency. 
It's pretty ridiculous! 
They want to squeeze as much as they can from you even if you just got in a car accident!!!! 
They don't care one bit about you!!!!! 
Terrible service!!! 
Made an appointment to have them come to the house to discuss curtain options and give an estimate. 
They sent over someone who said he knows nothing about curtains and could not show me fabric options or give an estimate. 
When I called the manager to complain, she said she KNEW the guy didn't know about curtains and that the usual lady called in sick hours earlier! 
Instead of rescheduling they chose to waste my time instead. 
So what was the point of the appointment!?! 
To just come over and hang out?!? 
I will NEVER do business with this company! 
EVER!!! 
Internet Department is rude and insulting 
I was looking to bring a customer to their lot to buy a car but the Internet salesperson Last name is Balazick sent me this email "AND IF IT WAS WORTH MY TIME I WOULD OF BOTHERED ASWERING YOUR QUESTIONS. 
I MAKE MONEY NOT DEAL WITH BROKERS" Wow, can you believe in todays tough times this dealership would be looking for any way to move vehicles. 
As a previous Internet Manager I would deal with anyone looking to buy a car for a profit and not care if they came in with a broker. 
Stay away from this dealership!!! 
This place is a Rip-Off 
I brought a car in to have the "check engine" light diagnosed back in March of 2010. 
They said it was "plugs and wires" and quoted me $330 to do the work, including parts. 
I asked why so high and they said it was due to the labor of moving things out of the way. 
Those things ended up being a windsheild washer fluid tank (1 screw) and the air filter canister (4 spring clips). 
I did the work myself for $50. 
There's no excuse for that kind of estimate. 
My girlfriend and I took a chance on this place because we didn't want to wait in line at Outback. 
What an amazing find - this restaurant is a GEM. 
#1 its immaculately clean. 
#2 the decor is tasteful and artistic, from the comfortable chairs to the elegant light fixtures.... and (most importantly) #3 the food is FANTASTIC. 
This is authentic Cuban cuisine; fresh ingredients expertly prepared and seasoned perfectly. 
The portions were generous and we got out for less than the cost of one entree at some chain restaurant. 
TRY THIS PLACE - YOU'LL LOVE IT. 
Thank you for helping me get more healthy! 
I came in and saw Dr. Ruona about a month ago for quitting smoking. 
I have to tell you that I haven't had one and don't want one. 
It is the easiest thing that I have ever done and I tell all my friends that they should do it too. 
I sent a customer of mine to you. 
Dr. Ruona, if you read this, thank you for helping me get more healthy. 
I feel lighter and feel that I have more possibilities open to me now than I did before. 
I can't thank you enough. 
Signs of Saltford - an excellent supplier of value for money signs and banners etc. 
I have been a friend and customer of Signs of Saltford for well over 12 years now and I also became their website supplier some 3 years ago. 
Tina is the driving force of the business and you can be assured that she will endevour to satisfy all your signage requirements at the most cost effective rates. 
I have been extremely pleased with the signs and pop-up banners she has supplied to me over the years - a truly first class family business run by Tina and her husband Chris. 
My counseling practice 
Hello my name is Vera and I'm writing a review about my own counseling practice in Bellevue, WA. and in Renton WA. 
I am a licensed mental health counselor and I work with variety of mental health problems. 
I offer compassionate, approachable and personalized counseling services. 
My style is compassionate, nonjudgmental, and caring. 
Please visit my website to learn more about my practice at www.veraakulov.com. 
I am a preferred provider with most insurance companies. 
Schedule your first appointment online! 
I would appreciate reviews from anyone who has worked with me before in the mental health setting. 
Fantastic for kids 
If you have children or are just a real animal lover yourself you'll love this zoo. 
It's only $10 and in essence just one big petting zoo. 
They sell feed and milk bottles at the front and I recommend you buy lots. 
We took our 7 month old and she laughed and giggled when (very harshly I might add) grabbing and 'kissed' the goats and lambs. 
The animals were all very sweet and patient with her. 
Among the animals that were available to touch were pony's, camels and EVEN AN OSTRICH!!! 
Wonderful, inexpensive and lots of fun! 
WOW!!! 
I can't say enough good things about Karla and the wonderful things she has done for me and my dog Gracee. 
Gracee is more excited to see her than she is to see me!!!! 
She has always been there for Gracee even for last minute calls! 
She has taken care of my sweet girl for almost 4 years now and I would not let Gracee go with anyone besides her!!! 
She is caring, punctual, and very enthusiastic about her job! 
You should give her a try - it's worth every penny to know that you pet is in GREAT hands with Wunderbar pet sitting!!!! 
Worst Service I've Ever Experienced 
I wish there was something good to say about the business, but unfortunately, there isn't. 
1) Service and manners were nonexistent. 
2) The employees constantly talk down to customers and are very argumentative for the sake of being argumentative. 
(to both myself and customers) 3) I have never experienced so much rudeness coming from a business. 
4) The business is very unorganized. 
The invoice is not detailed, so it is difficult to see what you are paying for. 
I'd recommend to save your time and energy and find another greek store. 
Exile is the best!!! 
Exile is the longest lasting and most authentic punk store in Richmond! 
I have been shopping there for over six years now. 
The staff is incredibly friendly and helpful and the owner, Mimmy, is an absolute angel. 
The mark up is minimal considering that the clothing is hard to find and often shipped for Europe. 
In addition, the clothing is of much better quality than the clothing from hot topic, which is made as cheaply as possible by people living in horrible conditions in Asia. 
Exile is environmentally conscious and involved heavily in our community. 
Shop local at Exile!! 
Over-rated 
Buddakan inevitably attracts the majority of its guests simply because of its association with Steven Starr, but that doesn't impress me. 
The atmosphere alone deserves 4 stars but, the food was not up to par with the price tag and the reputation the restaurant carries. 
The server we had was knowledgeable but he was not as proper as he should have been, acting like he was talking to his friends rather than his customers. 
The angry lobster was completely over-priced! 
$80 for a dish that has about one small lobster tail and is full of filler vegetables! 
I wouldn't go there again. 
Alto delivers on all levels. 
From the moment you enter the restaurant, you know you are some place special. 
The service is impeccable, and the food is even better. 
I highly recommend the four-course tasting menu, which gives you plenty of range and food to satisfy your appetite. 
Also, if you are into wine, Alto has the depth of both region, varietal, and vintage to satisfy nearly any sommelier (or after 9pm, bring your own bottle for free...no corking fee!). 
While it's not cheap, Alto will give you an experience you'll never forget. 
The landlord is not nice nor helpful 
I have lived in Buckingham Condominiums townhouse for 2 years. 
I love the location and the apartment!! 
I'ma single female and I feel safe coming home at night. 
The maintenance people are AWESOME!!!! 
And the exterminator is very nice, also. 
Yes, you still have a few bugs, but that's going to be anywhere you go! 
The only problem that I have experienced is the landlord. 
She is a pure b****!!! 
I know that's ugly...but she won't help you out for anything...sad story. 
Other than that, I would recommend living here. :) 
The staff leaves a lot to be desired. 
The front staff has seen quite a bit of turnover and changed from professional to rude. 
A simple follow-up phone call with a woman quickly turned into a nightmare. 
She may be the reason for all the change. 
I sincerely wonder if the doctor has a clue about what is going on within his practice. 
If he does know and approves of this behavior then it is a poor reflection on him. 
Sometimes it is not worth it to go through that kind of staff and their personal attitude to get to a doctor. 
He was an okay doctor but not worth her. 
WWW-Wonderful Wild Wildernest inn 
I would give the Wildernest inn ten stars of five! 
Atop Spring Mountain, from the decks of the West porch, "one can see forever" a scene of unparalleled beauty and grandeur. 
I saw deer frequently, in fact a small herd were grazing near the lodge. 
There were occasional bears on the deck in the morning. 
and most correctly, us visitors did not mingle with the native wildlife. 
It would have been more than one could bear! 
Kathy and Stewart, the proprietors were the epitome of perfection. 
Delightful, hospitable, superb,cozy and comfortable. 
I hope to be back! 
junkie lube?! 
really weird place, I was driving home from work thought I'd stop in for an oil change and well, there are a few guys in jiffy lube uniforms sitting at the table drinking beers and shooting the breeze. 
The neon lighting sign still said "on" yet some guy who seemed to be the oldest of the bunch, more like the drunkest of the bunch told me they'd be open tomorrow. 
I asked if a manager was on duty he told me he was.
WOW! 
grey shirt "mark" of course with this type behavior he could have been wearing someonelses clothing..... 
A friend and I recently took our 16 and 18 month olds here. 
While there wasn't too much available for their age (ball pit, bouncy area and a little padded pyramid to climb on), we went right when they opened at 10 am on a winter weekday and ended up being the only ones there, so we were given a little more liberty than we would have if others had been there. 
It's not the classiest place, but it was cleaner than I expected and the staff was very friendly. 
For $4 it was a nice break from the monotony of winter indoors with a toddler. 
Restored my faith in Mechaincs. 
I spent 3 months going from shop to shop trying to get my Ferrari to run and drive the way it should. 
I was about to give up when I met Jason and Neal. 
They took on the challenge of making my Ferrari all I dreamed of and more. 
The crew at The Creative Workshop went over and above the call of duty and gave me back a car I can drive anywhere and finally enjoy owning. 
I cannot say enough about this place. 
They have restored my faith in Mechanics. 
Do yourself a favor, call these guys first and enjoy driving your car again.. 
a great vacation! 
We wanted to see the sun - and we also got much more! 
Excellent chefs are in the kitchen preparing memorable breakfasts. 
After a train ride over the mountains, we enjoyed hiking in the flower-filled Wenatchee hills (in May) and a very interesting bike ride in a loop around the Columbia River...and then wine if we wanted it on the patio in the evening.... 
This is a busy group of hosts they are also running a restaurant, which also must be wonderful - so just ask for what you need, and I'm sure they will do their best to be hospitable. 
OMG 
OMG.. make sure to book a reservation, as this magical place is packed (in a nice way) I love that the owner walks around and cares how his customers feel about their food. 
The waiters are like no other...
My waiter was so excellent I gave him a 75% tip, and it was worht every penny.. 
The food was finger licking the bowel fantastic.. 
I just discovered her has a place right near my work ( Color me Phat) If you are looking for a romatic place with the best food and service in the valley Giovanni Ristorante should be your number 1 + 2 choice. 
Holly is truely the best hairstylist! 
I have lived in the UTC La Jolla area for many years, and I never new this salon was here until a friend reffered me to see Holly here. 
I was very pleased with my experience here. 
All of the people were friendly and welcoming. 
I got highlights, haircut, and a blowdry. 
She did a great job! 
Holly is very experienced and talented, and I could tell she new what she was doing right off the bat. 
My hair looks amazing, and I get compliments all the time. 
I deffenitly reccomend this salon and Holly to anyone. 
You will not be disappointed!!!!!! 
Outdated but not bad 
So I really felt like this place was extremely outdated especially since the pictures make it look nice and modern. 
It had listed that there was a hot breakfast but all this meant is that they added a waffle maker to the common continental affair at most cheap hotels. 
The family suite was basically two rooms with a small opening between them which worked great for us because we were two families traveling together. 
If you are in town and need that kind of space I say stay here but if you are looking for a little more upscale affair don't let the pictures fool you and book somewhere else. 
Great, and probably the only West Indian spot worth hitting up in Nashville. 
I was born and raised in Toronto, which has a huge West Indian (Trinidadian, Jamaican, etc) population. 
So huge in fact, that Toronto slang is influenced by and has Jamaican references, and Jamaican beef patties are staples in my high school cafeteria. 
Anyway, I was practically raised on this stuff, and being a connoisseur of West Indian cuisine, Jamaica Way is a bit toned down to suit the American palette. 
All you have to do to make it authentic Jamaican food, is add a whole lot of pepper. 
Alot. 
The finest Christmas Trees i've ever seen. 
I felt like I was in heaven when I walked through the majestic fields of this particular farm. 
The trees were in magnificent shape and the variety was astounding. 
The owners were entertaining and gracious. 
I especially liked the Eco friendly atmosphere and the owners love of all animals. 
This is one of the best farms I have ever been too. 
I would call it the Taj Mahal of the east coast! 
It put hair on my chest and thanks to the owners advice I invested vanguard, got myself a woman like Jerry, and became a republican. 
Thanks Tussey Mountain Tree Plantation! 
Pho-nomenal!! 
I have been eating Pho for almost my entire life and I've always gone to the Pho places in south philly and off the boulevard and even the other one in chinatown, but when i tried this pho place, it blew the other pho houses away!! 
all of the pho places taste the same to me, so what seperates one from the other is the service and the price. 
The service here is incredible compared to the other places. 
the only down fall of this pho house is the difficulty in finding parking in chinatown. 
remember to bring cash since they don't take debit or credit. 
hope this helps!! 
Had a horrible experience with a manager here, Rachel McInnis, she was rude, inconsiderate and did not do the right thing for an item that was marked incorrectly... 
I'm not interested in shopping in a place with people like her... she refused to sell me the item at its marked price even after admitting they had made a mistake. 
I normally don't write reviews but seeing that I considered Dillards a distinguished, upscale place to shop, this one won't be getting my business, nor my family's, nor my co-workers. 
It's never ok to let a customer walk out unhappy, especially when they are right. 
Highly Recommend 
I work as a Transformational Life Coach. 
Since this is an alternative therapy I always refer clients to a lisenced therapist when I feel that is appropriate. 
I found her through a colleague one day when one of my clients was in the midst of a panic attack and needed professional help that I am not qualified to provide. 
Little did I know that I would soon be needing her help as well! 
She guided me through a very difficult period dealing with a family member's suicide, coupled with elder abuse. 
I found her to be extremely solid, kind, compassionate, and intuitive as well. 
I would recommend her highly! 
They won't have a second chance from me. 
First, let me state that although I live in NYC, I am not from NYC, I don't care about baseball and I absolutely love Boston to death (so beautiful, so clean, so awesome). 
That said, I hated this restaurant. 
The service was just about as good as I'd get in NYC (that means it was poor) and the food was almost mediocre. 
The decor left a lot to be desired and the posters telling me all the reasons 99 was great just served as an ironic contrast against the reality. 
Personally I recommend you take your money elsewhere 
When I arrived at Brickell Honda on 6/4/11, I was greeted and attended to by the Sales Manager, Gustavo Guerra, in a very friendly and professional manner. 
I explained to him what I wanted and that I previously went to Braman Honda. 
Bramen Honda was a bit of a hassle. 
He told me "no problem, we will match the offer or do better." 
Mr. Guerra gave me a better deal without any hassles nor any type of problems. 
Brickell Honda has been the best buying experience in the world. 
I urge all St. Thomas the Apostle parishioners and all of South Florida residents to come see Gus!!! 
Excellent customer service!!! 
Great, Honest Service 
I took my 2001 Nissan Frontier in to fix a cracked manifold. 
The dealer wanted $1300 to fix that and another $1500 to fix some other things. 
Eagle Transmission determined that much of the work the dealer said needed to be done was unneccesary and what needed to be fixed was only $400!! 
I was so impressed with the honesty and integrity of Mike and everyone at Eagle Transmission! 
I dropped the truck off in the morning and it was ready that afternoon. 
I have finally found a mechanic I trust!! 
And it was great that they did not charge a service fee to diagnose the problem - an added bonus!! 
Dr. Shady 
Kelly hit the nail on the head. 
"Dr. Shady" is a jerk. 
After the way she spoke to me on my last visit, I will not be returning!! 
Good luck keeping business with that stuck up attitude Dr. Shady. 
You have just lost mine. 
The next time you feel like being condescending to someone, it is not going to be me!!!!!! 
Dr. Shady is inexperienced and prideful. 
She probably does not even have 10% of the knowledge that some of the other EXPERIENCED vets do in this area. 
I will be carefully researching vets before I take my dog someplace else. 
Beautifully written reviews Doctor, but completely UNTRUE. 
Poor Experience 
I did not have a good experience w/ Dr. Ghassemlou. 
During the session, he demanded to have my physical address, which I've always kept private as I am enrolled in a witness protection program. 
I believe he is correct in that he needs my physical address for legal reasons, however, he did not adequately explain this during our session. 
I learned more about this doing my own research afterward. 
I think he could've done more to assuage my concerns by giving me concrete facts. 
Saying that I need to give him my address or else I have intimacy issues is not helpful. 
It's pretty combative actually. 
you'll love it 
I have had my back fused in 2 places. 
I wish that I hadn't done this. 
With these fusions, chiropractric isn't as successful, but it still is very helpful. 
Even after my fusions, my back continued to hurt, but now it doesn't hurt any more. 
I would encourage anyone who is thinking of back surgery, to talk about different treatment options first with Dr. de Barros. 
He really knows what he is talking about and will approach the different options fairly. 
You can see different treatments that a surgeon can't see, so that you can have several treatment options before you decide what to do. 
Unbelievably huge experience for such a small salon!!! 
I have been to Kim at Cheveux for more than five years. 
I cannot tell you how often I am complimented on my hair (style AND color)! 
I regularly request Kim's business cards as I am often stopped on the street and asked "Who does your hair...I LOVE it!!!" 
Quaint, lovely, small salon with BIG personality. 
I am made to feel special when I am in the chair and I have NEVER had a less than amazing cut or color experience. 
My hair has never felt this healthy, either. 
I cannot recommend this salon enough!!! 
Thanks Cheveux! 
My Favorite in McLean 
My family loves coming to Endo Sushi.They are very nice, it is never crowded, and the food is wonderful, very delicious and fresh! 
Sometimes it is hard to get parking in the lot in front of the storefront, and it is on a one-way street, but the restaurant itself is NEVER overcrowded. 
If you cannot park in the lot, then you can park in the shopping center's garage, and walk up to Endo Sushi. 
The service is fast. 
Be sure to ring the little bell on your way out if you enjoyed your meal! 
(it's by the door, on the hostess stand) 
Horrible Service! 
I got yelled at, literally yelled at because i asked if i could pick up my car 5-10 minutes late. 
I explained that i was already on my way and i would rush to get there as soon as i could because i needed my car for work at 5am, but the guy was arguing with me saying he was gonna lock the doors right at 5:30. 
Rude, unprofessional, just jerks. 
Seems like all they care about is the money and getting home on time, NO care for the customers AT ALL!!! 
Missed a whole day of work because i am now carless. 
I will NEEEEEEEEEVERRRR go to this place again. 
Superb Arrangements 
I used Fancy Flowers for my late husband's funeral flowers as they had been recommended to me. 
I am so glad that I called in to see Ana, she is a lovely girl who showed nothing but care and compassion towards me. 
The flowers were all that I hoped they would be, I have attended several funerals of late unfortunately and the flowers I recieved from Ana outshone them all. 
She is so talented, the flowers were arranged superbly and delicately, it is so obvious to see the difference between someone fully trained and skilled compared to others. 
Thank you Ana I hope to see you in the future under better circumstances. 
Great first experience. 
I'm 22, and my hairdresser was great (and not "old" like one of the reviews says) - she really listened to what I wanted and gave me tons of tips on how to style my hair so I could get it to look the way I wanted it to. 
She deep conditioned my hair and took the time to style it properly. 
She recommended products but absolutely didn't pressure me to buy. 
It's a cute place with a really friendly, laid-back atmosphere. 
I would highly recommend it and will be going back for my next haircut. 
Oh! 
And students get $5 off, can't argue with that. 
Smokers Haven 
Yeah, this complex is not very good. 
Our bathroom fan, one electric outlet and 2 leaky sinks have yet to be fixed. 
Both bathrooms look like they were flooded and the wood cabinets are thrashed at the bottom and they slapped some pieces of wood over to try to cover it up. 
And non-smokers beware!!! 
I think 90 percent of the tenants are smokers! 
If you do not smoke, do not move here. 
Our unit reeks of old cigarette smoke and it started to become apparent a few weeks after we moved in. 
You cannot walk 5 feet without smelling that disgusting cigarette smoke and it blows right into the windows all day and all night. 
Great Sanwiches, Great Prices 
I used to go here almost everyday since I work in the neighbourhood and loved their turkey and meatball sandwiches. 
Chicken salad salad is great too. 
Best of all, the staff is quick on their feet and even with long lines, usually serve you in 5 minutes or less. 
For the quality, the prices ($4-$6) have to be the best in town. 
The staff get to know regulars and do their job very well. 
Tourists like the other reviewer might not appreciate their efficiency or quality, but I certainly do. 
This isn'ta TGIF or Cafe, its a lunch sandwich place and a good one at that. 
Rate a church? 
Might as well just hotpot the curb and rate the traffic light. 
It's a bloody church, for chrisssake! 
Big, grey and imposing. 
Go there on christian holidays for a bit of churchy grandure. 
The pastor at this church is cool, I met him after some holiday service. 
He had a robe that was made back in the '60s. 
God was pleased with that one! 
It's historical for Sf, so when your aunte comes for a visit, take her there. 
Great for the kiddies - they love the labyrinth (don't forget to tell 'em its really a 'pagen' thing!). 
Stop by at least once or you'll go to heck! 
ok but just becuse we where on a tight budget. 
me and my dad where in NJ for a kc chiefs(my home team)vs the NY jets and for game 4 of the world series.
i'ma red sox fan so i was glad that the phillies won.
the knights inn was small very small.i mean 1 room in every room!it was cozy a little and a small tv.
i mean a 2 day stay was a ok stay even tho the manager looked like he was chineze and that we only slept and went out from 8 to 7 to see New York.
but sice we almost just slept there i cant give that good of a review 
It was a Saturday and my spring was broken... 
I googled Garage Door Repair in Woodinville and found NDI - Johnette answered the phone and was oh-so pleasant and helpful! 
She sort of appologized for Dan taking the day off to go skiing - but he could do the repair on Sunday! 
I said great and Dan arrived on time at 10am to make the repair. 
I enjoyed speaking with Dan, and learning more about how the springs are sized for these doors. 
The repair went quickly and the price was extremely fair. 
I would highly recommend NDI - and will spread the word to my neighbors. 
Thanks Dan and Johnette for your responsiveness and professional service. 
Roger M., Woodinville 
I wouldn't send my dogs there. 
I had a conversation with the woman running this place in April 2010. 
She basically said if the children getting off the bus aren't paying to enter her building she was going to let them wander around the streets. 
Wow, really? 
With all the child predators out there, a busy road, cars speeding by...... and you are going to let some 4/5 year olds wonder around cause you're money hungry? 
REAL CHRISTIAN OF YOU!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Whether they pay me or not, if their parents get into an accident, stuck in traffic, etc. THE LAST THING I WOULD DO IS LET A CHILD GET RAPED BECAUSE I WASN'T PAID. 
Excellent service 
I could easily go to Nordstrom for my designer jeans and pay the same price, but I go to the Garment District for their service. 
Previous reviewers said they were pushy and I can understand that, but I find the staff more helpful than anything else. 
Tiffany is fabulous! 
I came in for alterations (free, by the way) and told her about a stain I had on my new leather purse. 
She immediately went to the back, brought out leather cleaner and cleaned my purse on the spot. 
I didn't even buy the bag there! 
Huge selection and, great suggestions from the staff and they refer you to reliable places if they don't have what you need. 
We were expecting a great experience, when we recieved a friendly greeting by the hosts. 
The atmosphere was nice and very clean. 
The menu had plenty of options even for picky eaters. 
The service was ok, our waitress kept forgetting our drinks even though we reminded her several times. 
To start we tried the guacamole and salsa verde, it was completly flavorless. 
We should have left then. 
We orderd our meals anyway, chimichangas,jalapeno borritos, and quesadillas. 
Everything was bland, completely void of any spice or flavor. 
We have never had mexican food this bad, it was just simply gross. 
Hopefully they spice things up or they wont be in business long. 
I recommend La Hacienda 
Might try again 
Pros: * Jill, the owner, is very nice and really cares about her feedback * Pretty nice atmosphere * Great Dessert * Not your typical veggie selection, I like! 
Don't know where else you can find Purple Hull Peas and some of the other sides. 
Cons: * Server wasn't very pleasant * Pretty small portion on the blackened catfish * Overcooked food * Time, took about 25 minutes from ordering to eating. 
Half the tables and bar were empty by this point. 
Other Thoughts: Will try this place again. 
There must be a reason so many people like it there. 
Their Club sandwich looks tasty, maybe that'll change my mind.... and a different server. 
very professional / very helpful 
the people at Fidelity Leasing were very friendly and helpful. 
i was looking for a car but did not really know what i wanted and they were very helpful and took the time to first figure out what my needs were and showing me various options to meet those needs. 
they seemed more interested in helping me find the right car rather then just make a sale. 
my experience with them was great - low stress, very helpful and very personal. 
after finding the car i wanted they took the time to go over each step and making it as painless as possible. 
from start to finish they were top notch. 
i would highly recommend calling these people up for your next car. 
This insurance co. Is a joke !!! 
They have absolutely no communication skills whatsoever . 
if you don't mind being robbed ,cheated or lied to then this is the company for you . 
They will make every attempt to misinform and misrepresent themselves . 
They make up excuses in hopes to confuse their policy holders with misinformation . 
as an example they took payment for 5 out of 6 monthly plan premiums for a yearly policy and cancelled the contract for the remainder of the policy for reasons they stated was not receiving information on other licensed drivers in the household ? 
I personally provided the request on four separate occasions and they claim there is a glitch in their systems ? 
Ifa is an acronym for Im a F%#king Assh@%$e !!! 
Fantastic Service! 
I have been here a few times for oil changes and just got my tires, alignment and state inspection done yesterday. 
I shopped it around and they were extremely competitive in pricing and also added nitrogen to my tires which should extend the life and get me better gas mileage. 
It also came with free balance and rotation for the life of the tires! 
What made it perfect was that they offered transportation so that I would not have to wait there or take time off of work to go back and forth or try to find a ride. 
Great service, great pricing and SUPER CONVENIENT! 
I also did not feel like they tried to sell me a bunch of services that I did not need. 
Love my home at Creekside 
I moved to Creekside Apartments in August 2008 with a 6-month lease and have just extended it for another 13 months! 
The management from Julie and Janice to the work staff, esp. Edwin, are just wonderful. 
They have been extremely helpful whenever I have asked for help. 
Although the apartments are facing Stokes Street and close to the Bascom Light Rail, the location is surprisingly quiet. 
I have never had any problems with loud neighbors or concerns about safety. 
The apartments are within walking distance to Trader Joe's, Whole Foods, and other stores. 
The well-equipped, clean gym is a plus! 
Great place to live if you work in and around downtown San Jose! 
I interviewed several contractors for a kitchen remodel. 
Liberty construction shows up and it's two guys...all I get is 100% sales pitch "We're the best...we're number 50 so we must be doing something right...look at all these certificates that say we're great". 
Not once did I feel listened to like they actually cared about what I wanted, all they were interested in was me signing a contract right then and there. 
Very high pressured sales and with the reviews of many others bad service. 
I'm glad I trusted my gut and didn't get sucked into doing business with them. 
Find someone you trust that actually hears you and wants to do the job right. 
Don't waste your time or money! 
I took my 3 year old son here at the weekend and to be honest, apart from the shark walkway, I thought it was rubbish and overpriced. 
Even taking into account the fact that my 3 year old wanted to run most of the way round, it took us just over one hour start to finish. 
If you have been to the London Aquarium I would not even bother with this. 
If you are really desperate for something to pass the time and are willing to shell out the best part of £30 for 2 two people then go for it. 
(For some reason itwill not let me rate it one star - it is not rated 5 by me!) 
Cranmore Dental and Implant Clinic : I could not recommend Dr David Nelson enough. 
I had a severe phobia of attending the dentist until I met and was treated by Dr Nelson. 
He instantaneously put me at ease and his ongoing treatments have been absolutely pain free. 
My previous apprehension has been dismissed and I no longer have a sinking feeling when my next appointment is due! 
In addition to the core treatment, Dr Nelson has impressed me further with his concern and interest in the well-being of his patients – his dental work underpinned by a strong duty of care to every patient. 
He is always prepared to go the extra mile to ensure that any patient discomfort is dealt with immediately – 
Pam Gillies 
Best Salsa (hehehe) 
After my trees were cleaned up, they gave me a jar of salsa. 
The owner warned me that it was the best salsa I would ever had, and he was right. 
No joke! 
I hate to say check them out just for the salsa, but James, I NEED another jar badly :) All kidding aside, they are a very good company, I have a hard time giving any service biz a 5 star review but they came close. 
Very affordable (don't call it cheap) and their trimmers were quick and courteous when I got home from work. 
And the salsa, be sure to ask for a jar and have plenty of chips around, you will need them..... 
Dr. Mann killed our pet 
Yea, Dr. Mann ain't so great. 
We took our beloved kitty to him and it came back dead. 
We live in the sub-division around the corner and after it happened and we brought it up at some neighborhood gatherings we discovered that several people from this neighborhood alone had pets goto Dr. Mann for surgical procedures and came back dead. 
If you take him here for shots, no big deal but I would never let this man apply anesthetic to my pet ever again. 
Oh, they also charged me for the procedure ($250) AND had the audacity to charge me a $25 'DISPOSAL' fee. 
They actually itemized it as a DISPOSAL fee. 
AVOID AT ALL COSTS. 
One of the worst places 
This place and its sister store Peking Garden are the worst places to order from. 
the food was horrible not cooked like it should be, they got the order wrong on a number of occasions, and once forgot about my order. 
i had to call back up there two hours later and the lady (who claimed to be a manager) said my food was on the way, and she didnt offer to compensate me in any kind of way. 
i waited another 30 mins before receiving my food and it was cold. 
in my opinon this place should be shut down by the health inspector, and anyone who is satisfied with there service and food has never eaten at a real asian restaurant. 
Gone downhill since change in ownership 
Sigh. 
I used to LOVE this place. 
But now that they are part of a chain, service has slipped. 
I am waiting longer at BNA for my pickups and last time I parked with them, they lost my car key. 
Lucky I had a spare with me! 
To date they have not made good by either finding the key or paying for a new one. 
(These new car keys are EXPENSIVE to copy, you can't just go to WalMart.) 
Go to the website for coupons and join the club -you can get free parking. 
However, with BNA offering one day of free parking due to construction of the new rental car facility, it may be cheaper to park at BNA. 
Wife and I attempted to adopt a dog and was nothing but frustrating. 
We arrived Sunday at about 230 and found a do we really liked. 
We were told that we couldn't today because they were closing soon. 
I called the next morning to let then know my wife would be driving in. 
They gave me the run around and missing paperwork only to call back to tell me someone else wanted her and I would need to come in and put down a deposit. 
I work 2 hours away but offered my card over the phone. 
They refused. 
Terrible communication as well. 
At one point they told me the dog had been fixed, the next day it hadn't. 
Huge ammount of time wasted time and elevated blood pressure. 
College is a Joke and the Salon is a JOKE! 
Went to the school here OVER PRICED!!!!!! 
You do NOT learn the things you were promised. 
You have to bring in your own models and they have to pay for you to use them if you dont then you can graduate! 
Going back after graduating your told you get a discount on services nope you dont. 
Staff is under educated. 
Going there you learn the school does not care about the services given just about the money. 
Over priced for students to learn! 
Beware of the nail program you are not taught to use a nail drill AT ALL you learn the old fashioned way of doing nails you will not be able to do well in a salon!!! 
BEWARE! 
You can fool people 
This store is proof that you can fool people with good advertising. 
They convince lots of people that they are a great store, when in fact they are a very average place at best, they are just another big box store like the others. 
They offer sales that aren't really sales, mislabeled items that make the item sound like a good deal when it isn't, a bad attitude about return items, and on and on. 
With higher than average prices to boot! 
So don't get taken in, keep your eyes open if you choose to shop here. 
On the other hand, the Richmond Ukrops chain is known for its charity work, its community action, and its interest in the public welfare. 
Never again 
Don't go here unless you want to sit,order,eat and be asked to leave all in a matter of 20 minutes. 
You won't even have time to read the entire menu before being asked to order and if you ask for more time your server will wait at the table. 
This is the only place I have ever eaten and been told to leave because other people were waiting. 
I was told to take my coffee to go if I wanted to finish it. 
Oh, and their liquor license was expired so no Bloody Mary or Mimosas. 
Plus the drinks are self service, have fun trying to negotiate the small cafeteria space to get your coffee, juice or water. 
Go next door to the Ball Square Cafe instead. 
I guess you get what you pay for. 
I tried to stay here for a few nights with my girlfriend, so we asked for a single queen bed. 
We got there, and we were treated to the free "upgrade" of a room with two double beds. 
Since they consider this an upgrade, they let their other rooms fill up and would not change our room. 
Then we got put in a room with a huge gap under the door....right next to the ice machine. 
We could hear every single thing that happened outside like it was inside our room. 
When I finally found someone at the desk who could speak English, they moved our room, but we still did not receive the single queen we had "reserved" 
I was thoroughly impressed! 
I had a problem with the tile in my bathroom coming apart. 
I called a few different businesses in the area to get estimates , they weren't the cheapest I found but very reasonable. 
The best part is I got my whole bathroom remodeled for about the same price the other company's were quoting just to fix the shower tile and fixtures. 
They had the work done in about half the time quoted which made me and my wife extremely happy. 
We have had nothing but compliments on our bathroom when guest come over- who would have guessed that one? 
Very nice work and friendly guys too. 
Best money I've spent on remodeling ever. 
I highly recommend any one considering home repair to give these guys a call. 
New training Centre is excellent 
The Award Dance Centre has moved from its Holderness Road site to a new complex on Chamberlain Road Hull. 
The new Centre has 4 studios planned and now boasts the largest single dance floor area in Kingston upon Hull. 
The classes cover all age and skill ranges, with BALLROOM, LATIN, SEQUENCE, STREET, DISCO, LINE DANCING, BALLET, TAP & JAZZ. 
We have attended A Ward Dance Centre for over a year and really enjoy the friendly and welcoming way we are taught Ballroom and Latin as well as the fun filled social dance evening held every Saturday evening.... 
It is not really possible to score this school too highly, We would give it 12 out of 10 and 5 Stars across the board Steve & Anne 
I purchased a 2-year old certified pre-owned BMW from this dealership. 
The night I drove back home, I found that the rear window has some leakage. 
(You can hear the wind while driving on highway. 
Very likely it needs a new window seal). 
I admit that I should have paid attention to this kind of little things while test drive. 
(But this is a certified car from a dealer.) 
So I brought the car back the second day. 
They told me that this is not under warranty and want to charge me $175 just to diagnose the problem! 
Who knows how much they want me to pay to fix this thing. 
I walked away. 
So my advice is that NEVER TRUST THIS DEALER. 
STAY AWAY AS FAR AS POSSIBLE. 
Perfect Practice 
After I had chosen The Fountain Dental Practice they provided a slick and professional service from start to finish. 
Everyone was friendly from the receptionist to the surgeon herself, putting me at my ease and explaining the whole process, both initially and then as we went along. 
Surgery visit timings were always made to suit me and not them and they gave me the feeling that I mattered and was important to them. 
The surgery itself is slick, modern and very relaxed and I always felt that I was in capable hands. 
My dental surgeon, Dr. Lucy Nichols is clearly a dental perfectionist and clearly proud both of the work she does and the reputation she has established. 
Everyone was so helpful that I cannot wait to go back ..... 
Peter 
Wonderful service for large group 
I had my wedding luncheon at this BJs restaurant, and it was one of the best choices that I made. 
It was a great deal--we paid a certain amount per person, and my husband and I chose 4 types of pizza and the servers brought out as much as we wanted. 
We were also served salad and soda. 
We had a large party, about fifty people or so, and yet everything was served quickly and we all had a wonderful time. 
Even though we were only supposed to have those specific types of pizza, when guests asked for a different type, it was brought out with no charge to us! 
I really appreciate BJs for making that special day even better with their wonderful food and service. 
wonderful 
I went to ohm after reading some of the reviews. 
I go to school in the area and usually wait until I go home to get my hair cut. 
I decided it was time to grow up and made an appointment. 
Sierra was my stylist and i love what she did. 
I have wavy hair and she cut to my hair style. 
It was the first time i had left a salon with my hair curly. 
Usually they blow dry it out and i have to wait until i wash it to see what it will look like in its natural state. 
But she did a fabulous job letting me know what she was doing at all times and styled my hair in a way i could do it at home. 
It wasn't completly impossible!!!! 
I am definitely going back 
After recently relocating to South Bend, we were looking for a delicious, fun, yet elegant establishment for New Years Eve dinner. 
We were disappointed with this holiday dinner due to the overall flavor and price of the meal, and accessibility to the Jazz Club. 
The meal was extremely overpriced and lacked flavor, especially for being a special NYE menu. 
The limited menu had few appetizing options and the NYE special packages were way overpriced. 
After our meal, our server found us a table in the jazz club where we were informed it would be another $10/person to stay and listen to the band, despite the fact we had just finished a dinner there and were intending to enjoy their drink list. 
This was a less than impressive experience at Trio's. 
Run for the hills ... you'll be much better off! 
One night was too much. 
First room had used tissues next to the bed and I requested it be rectified. 
I was then moved to another room around the back where the room was dirty, the shower was dirty with other peoples hair in it, the toilet seat was peeling and rough and the bathroom was full of mould. 
I called reception to ask if they knew the state the room was in and was told "This is a Days Inn, not the Hilton" and the receptionist then hung up on me. 
To warn you to stay away from this place just isn't enough. 
There was not one ounce of caring involved and anyone I can warn about the complete lack of service will be warned. 
Grocery and Daily Needs Store 
Before using FusionRetail Before installing FusionRetail store was running on a dos based software. 
We were having a major problem in maintaining cash. 
Being a grocery shop, maintaining 5000 different products was a challenging job. 
Managing POS counter without barcoding was really a tough time. 
How FusionRetail has overcome these issues ? 
FusionRetail helps us to maintain the store in an organised way. 
Usage of product barcodes and smooth maintenance of inventory with proper recording of transactions like sale, purchase and returns was never easy before. 
How long does it take to train new people at work ? 
Billing takes 15 minutes and backoffice jobs takes 1 day's training 
How fast your support queries get answered ? 
Over telephone, immediate. 
On call, it takes a day to get our issues resolved. 
Can't wait to go back!!! 
This is by far the BEST B&B that we have ever stayed at! 
We were in Santa Fe for a special event and our hosts rented out the El Paradero for all their guests to stay at. 
We could not have been more welcomed, more comfortable or more well fed. 
The weekend was perfect in every way, in large part to Sue and her great staff. 
Everyone was so friendly and really went out of their way to make sure everything went well. 
We can not wait to go back to Santa Fe and to this great B&B...especially my 4 year old, who made friends with Ms. Sue and all the ladies, and has talked about them since we left! 
We would highly recommend the El Paradero on your next trip to Santa Fe! 
Disatisfied customer, I went through Kitchen Aid and used one of their recommended vendors. 
A&E came out, charged $129 fee just to walk in the door. 
I needed a part for my appliance, the cost was very high so I said never mind, paid the fee and called a local business for a second quote. 
The second vendor charged $55 (less than half of what A&E charges) to come and applied that to the price of the repair service (which A&E does not). 
Their quote came in at half the price of A&E for the same work and same part. 
Seems to me like A&E charges way more than necessary! 
Very disappointed in Kitchen Aid as well, I thought that they pre-screened their vendors for price and quality of work, obviously they do not! 
Lovely Nails on Cayuga St. in Lewiston, NY 
First let me start out by saying, that I have had very nice pedicures at Lovely Nails on Military Road. 
I was very excited that a salon was opening in Lewiston, as I live in Youngstown. 
I was in two weeks ago and had the worst pedicure that I have had in my life. 
There were four of us and I was taken first by a gentleman. 
I put my foot in the water and it was cool. 
He did warm it up. 
He also hurt my toes will pushing my cuticles back. 
If the pedicure lasted 20 mins., that was a stretch. 
The other ladies had a similar experience, both had nail polish on a couple of toes. 
None of us will be using their services again, which is a shame. 
Good Service - Limited Results 
Andrew was helpful and knowledgeable about acupuncture re: infertility. 
He was willing to talk to me about my specific issues and develop a plan of action. 
The office is shared with a foot doctor and it's very sterile and medical feeling, which I liked. 
The down side was that sometimes there was a lot of noise in the hallway from other patients/doctors. 
I worked with Andrew for 2 months and did acupuncture and herbs. 
The sessions were nice and I felt relaxed after them but did not notice any changes with my cycles. 
I know it can take awhile for results and didn't expect a miracle, but after 2 months I felt like it was not entirely worth the cost/time. 
(I am also a little suspicious of all these glowing reviews...) 
Friendly, clean and excellent location 
The staff was very helpful, and gave us good advice on day and night time activities. 
Common room was comfortable and clean, very good room to read or relax. – 
A great breakfast which was included every morning until 9:30am; yummy fresh Parisian croissants. 
Comfortable and clean beds, a bit noisy when people were coming in late from a night out, but we didn't mind too much as we were also just coming in from a night out! 
The location is really stellar! 
It is next to Gare du Nord and a five minute walk to Sacre Coeur which is excellent for shopping. 
It is close to bus lines for Opera Plaza, Galleries Lafayette , and the famous flea Market. 
We really enjoyed our stay and would definitely stay at the Vintage Hostel again. 
Just Autos Thank you! 
Was fast and easy, Just had our car returned this morning, I would recommend these Mobile Mechanics for sure. 
They certainly know what they are doing. 
The mechanic came to our place and sorted out our cars problems, he explained the problem and was very up front and honest, it was towed to the workshop as the gearbox was not working (he explained it better). 
They phoned the same day, confirmed it was the gearbox quoted me the job, I gave the go ahead. 
Now my cars gears and brakes have never run so well... ever its like driving a new car. 
So yes, I wouldn't hesitate in recommending the team at Just Autos for easy professional car repairs,Thank you Just Autos for your help. 
I stopped in today @ Yards Brewery. 
I must say, I was impressed with the size of the bar area and lounge, & I liked that you could see the brewery right thru the glass! 
I had a sampler of IPA, Brawler, Love Stout & ESA. 
All were awesome, & I had a Dogwood Grilled Cheese which was enjoyable with the fine beers. 
After my sampler & sandwich, I asked for a pint of there Nitrogen Love Stout, I must say I was impressed, with the great taste & I am a Guiness Lover so coming from me, I think this is better, its less dry & smoother! 
If you are in Philly you have to come check this place out! 
The only negative I have abou this place is the parking! 
I left with a case of BRAWLER!!!!! 
Oil Change Disaster 
My wife had taken her '07 Ford Fusion in for a routine oil change. 
A couple days after the oil change, the engine ran rough, the low oil pressure light would come on sporadically, and the engine would whir loudly. 
Turns out the engine had no oil, and when oil was put it, it would just run out of the filter. 
There could have (hopefully doesn't have) major damage to the engine. 
All of this started after their oil change. 
Once they realized their mistake they sent a mechanic and tow truck to my wife's work and towed it back to fix it. 
I would not recommend this shop for anything, not even something as simple as an oil change. 
Plus they will overcharge you for just about everything, and smile while doing it. 
Liars, negative stars! 
Took my Cruze in twice for poor fuel economy. 
The first time they claimed to get reasonable mpg. 
However, they would never drive the car with me in it to prove their findings. 
I wonder if they were going down a hill! 
They told me to bring it back after 5000 miles. 
I brought it back with 9000 miles. 
They "finished" the work and told me the car was ready. 
I found out they did not even drive the car, stated they looked at it before. 
They still would not drive the car with me to show their mpg number. 
They also claimed not to see anything wrong with the blower fan (a seperate issue), but when I drove the car home I had the same symptoms. 
I will never purchace another vehicle from Vic Canever. 
Great Job 
I want to say that Mike did a great job for our family in our time of need. 
Both my grandparents passed away 4 months apart and Mike was very understanding. 
It was a very trying time for my family and myself yet Mike took the time to greet each and everyone one of us. 
He is very professional in his position as a director and yet he still made time to be compassionate for what we were all going through. 
I'm sure its not everyday that a funeral director sees the same family in such a short time. 
My grandfather passed away silently in his sleep, and my grandmother passed away after a short struggle with cancer. 
Both my grandparents looked as natural as could be expected. 
Thank you Mike for all your help professionally and personally. 
The Peterson Family 
Poor service 
If you like the drama described in popular sitcom 'Seinfeld', you will see it here. 
We signed our name in about 6:00pm. 
There were 3 names before us. 
The greeter said there was about 15 minutes waiting. 
However, we waited and waited and in the mean time, saw 4 groups of people simply just paraded in without signing there names. 
This sign in policy is posted by the restaurant “no reservation, sign your name here”. 
I had to ask the greeter, he explained his reasons with broken English. 
I could not understand any his reasons. 
I could only take it as they would seat the people they know first. 
My conclusion is that you should only go there if you want to wait a least an hour and see all kinds other people being seated before you. 
Instructor never showed up! 
January 15th -- We were signed up for Saturday's 2 PM class "Beginning Yoga with Brittany." 
We even arrived 10 minutes early as the website suggests. 
The instructor did not show up! 
We waited until 2:25 PM and then left. 
There were 2 in our group, and a 3rd person was also in the parking lot waiting for this class. 
Well, not much I can say except I'm very disappointed with this experience. 
This was our first visit to your studio. 
In today's instant world, there's no reason for the instructor not to even have given us a phone call or e-mail if she was going to be late. 
As a yoga studio, I'm sure you're all aware that all actions generate karma … 
and sometimes karma can manifest itself on a bad review on Google. 
Finest?? 
Really?? 
I beg to differ. 
This place is marginal at best. 
Not very welcoming and focused mostly on keeping little kids entertained. 
I was not impressed, and quite frustrated at their lack of rating for their courses. 
I understand not wanting to put labels like 5.10 on an indoor course, because yes, it is not the same, but some clear understanding of the difficulty of one course to another is nice when you are an intermediate climber looking to improve. 
I don't want to waste my time on routes set for children, but I don't want to take on something I can't handle just to strain myself to exhaustion. 
Rate the routes, with understandable markings and a more detailed system than easy, moderate, and hard. 
Again, a great outing for the kids, a frustration for an out of town climber. 
Best DJ's In Town! 
Wow! 
These guys were the best. 
They were thorough, high class, and went above and beyond. 
We never had to worry about a thing, and they led the way the whole time. 
They asked us things that we would have never have thought of, and took extra time to meet with us when we needed it before the wedding. 
Having a team was the best because they kept the flow of the wedding going the whole time! 
They may look young but don't let that fool you, as their knowledge of music far surpassed what we expected. 
I am a music junkie that grew up in the 80's, and my dad worked for a record label in the 1960's. 
So we didn't expect them to even know some of the requests that we asked that night. 
They just really know their stuff! 
NEVER fear going to the dentist again! 
I'm 61 years old and have dental problems my entire life. 
By the age of 24 I stopped going to the dentist. 
My fear and discomfort from dental work scared me! 
It took all the courage I could muster to make an appointment. 
At the front door of his office, I nearly turned around. 
I considered just leaving after going inside and nearly did. 
Doctor Gonzales and his entire staff are the most professional people I have ever dealt with. 
They made me feel confident in what they would do, and treated me like a member of their own family. 
I never felt pain or discomfort. 
The ability to smile and eat again can only be described as a whole new lease on life. 
Thank you Doctor Gonzales, Doctor Stout, Eva Marie and the entire staff! 
Rocky M. Lange Retired Coordinator, Clark County School District 
HORRIBLE SERVICE AND FOOD 
not only is this place too expensive for what it is, its horrible! 
In the past, I got a steak and there was more fat and rough pieces than there was good steak (and this was the sirloin!), the sides were drenched with butter and the salad was a little on the brown side. 
Today we went for a party (during lunch, so the place was empty) with about 25 other people. 
It took over 1.5 hours for our food to come out and by that time my 8 month old had it! 
Does it seriously take that long for a soup and salad? 
I was a waitress for years and a key rule is to serve customers with small children before others, as I was the last to get my food. 
I would NOT recommend having a party here or even going here. 
Texas Roadhouse is WAY better!! 
Spay and neuter service. 
I have no doubt that the rescue is wonderful. 
But I had my cat spayed through their reduced/free spay and neuter program and the vet they sent us to was first of all a hour and a half away, and 4 days later we had to bring them to our normal vet because the vets at the place in wisconsin did a crappy job and they got infections. 
My vet even said it was not my fault it was the vet that did the surgery, So I would not recommend getting that program unless you have an extra hundred dollars or so for antibiotics and a vet visit. 
You'd think they would do a good job but they don't care unless they are getting paid full price. 
Which is so dumb. 
Not to mention the fact that they gave us our cats back not even 30 minutes after they were out from surgery. 
Billing Issues... 
I had a routine surgery for an ingrown toenail. 
My insurance company, Blue Cross/Blue Shield paid the fees and everything was fine. 
Then I got a bill for $483.00. 
The doctor's office said that payments had been "reversed". 
Blue cross has no record of aa reversal. 
The office refused my requests to see what they got from BC/BS. 
They eventually turned it over to a collection agency and now will not even discuss the matter. 
I eventually decided to just pay the balance even though the doctor has already been paid, but now the collection agency is trying to say another reversal of $160.00 has come through. 
It was an ingrown toenail. 
How much could it possibly cost? 
Not only am I being bilked for money I do not owe, the office staff is rude to boot. 
I think this office has some serious billing practice issues! 
We have been blessed to find Elite Flyers online and would not use anyone else to handle our postcards, posters, etc. 
We were looking for a company with decent rates as our company was just getting started. 
They have the best rates and GREAT customer service. 
On one order, we needed it rushed and shipped to a different state. 
They did that with no problem. 
I also appreciate their honesty. 
I sent a graphic that would have been distorted if printed as it was. 
They called and worked with me to fix it so that it would look perfect. 
They recently surprised me a larger order. 
I ordered 1000 postcards, we normally order 5000 or more. 
Because they had room to do 5000, they created the larger amount, and shipped them early. 
I recommend this company to ANYONE and everyone that needs great work done at a reasonable rate! 
They have a customer for life in us! 
sheisters 
i made the mistake of buying from these thieves.
I paid 2k cash for a truck with a blown motor.
Their so called mechanic said the engine was good and "There is nothing mechanicly wrong with this truck".
Well I think a blown engine falls under the catagory of mechanics right?
Anyway they jimmy rigged it so i could drive it home.
The next day i took it to 2 auto shops and they both told me the same thing,engine is junk.
I called and got the same runaround on hold and noone calls you back.
From a moral standpoint,you guys are really gonna take 2,000 bucks from someone that needs that truck to work and support his family when you know its just a piece of scrap metal?
If it lasted 1 month i could suck it up but 1 day?
Grimy work you guys do.
Buy your kids somethin nice with my 2k bucks. 
Best Stationery store in Bethesda 
Papeluna, a cute Mom/Pop custom printing and paper store, just opened a few days ago. 
It is right on the hustle and bustle of Wisconsin Ave but some might miss it as it is nestled in between Subway Sandwiches and Modell's. 
I popped in after my afternoon pumpkin spice latte break at Starbucks. 
It's an adorable little store filled with lots of stationery goodness. 
Cards, wrapping paper, paper, and an area to sit down and talk with someone to design your own invitations or for whatever else your custom printing needs may be. 
I gave the woman I spoke with today a "You've been yelped!" card to let her know that Yelp may be a good tool for helping spreading the word about Papeluna. 
I ended up buying a birthday card and would probably come back for more. 
printing, printing, copies, printing, copies, printing, 
Watch out for your wallet 
Watch out for your wallet! 
This company is overpriced for their services. 
They pride themselves on being an event and team building company for corporate clients but you better believe they are going to mark you up on that feel good premise. 
On a recent event quote that I had done, they came in thousands of dollars over their local competition. 
The craziest part is that they aren't even based locally at the city I'm in- they just have 'teams' in areas through the country. 
I've spoken to vendors who are used by them who had nothing good to say about the company as well and in fact were afraid to quote events against them even though they openly admitted that they felt Canadian Outback was pricing their entertainment out of the market and doing more to hurt their business than help them. 
Be warned- they'll ltake you for everything they can. 
Believe me. 
This is THE premier university in Virginia. 
It is also the largest. 
With a Pizza Hut, IHOP, 3 Starbucks, Chilis, Panera, and Chipotle on campus ALONE, VCU has some of the best eating options for students. 
VCU has the #1 art school in America, and EXCELS in healthcare and medical schooling. 
The Rams, the VCU sports team, also made the NCAA Final 4 this year, too! 
VCU also offers high-rise living for students and professors, and the historic yet fixed-up houses in the Fan are also available to students, professors, or even people wanting to live in a safe, viable community. 
VCU is also minutes from Downtown Richmond, Canal Walk, Carytown, Stony Point, Short Pump, and the VCU Medical Center. 
It is the best university in Virginia and continuously receives rave reviews every year. 
The U of R is also recommended, too! 
Orr's a nightmare! 
DON'T GO! 
My boyfriend and I were woken up in the middle of the night at our campsite by drunken kids who'd arrived around 1:00 am and were drinking at the springs. 
When we complained to the management (as we were instructed to do if there were any problems), nothing happened! 
Then, the next morning, when we, among many other irate guests, asked to speak to the owner, he refused to do so. 
Not only that, but he told us, via his manager, that it was our responsibility to get up a second time in the middle of the night and call the night staff if the problem continued, even though his manager did nothing the first time to stop the kids. 
Orr is not relaxing, it's not a safe space, and the owner is awful. 
To add insult to injury, he refused to refund our money. 
Don't go! 
FHS is a good high school -- c/o 1998 
I enjoyed my time at Franklin High School. 
We had relatively good facilities at the time -- decent science labs, with multiple hoods and access to good equipment; nice gymnasiums, and a well-funded music department (I was in the guitar ensemble). 
Now, of course, there's a new building, with presumably better facilities. 
All to the good. 
For those who care, a good proportion of the my class went on to 4-year colleges, many of them ranked in the top 50 of US News. 
If I remember, students went to Dartmouth, U.Penn, Duke, BU, William and Mary, Vassar, Howard, and Carnegie Mellon, among others. 
Many students went to Rutgers, including their top-ranked pharmacy program. 
The point is -- FHS gives you the opportunity to make it to a good college, but you need to work hard. 
Absolutely the best little motel on the coast! 
I've stayed at this fabulous little motel two years running, and I have to say it's one of the best lodging experiences I've ever had on the coast...and I'm even comparing it to the big resorts I've stayed at! 
A large group of my friends and I rent almost the whole motel every year for a weekend, and the experience and stay have always been five-star. 
The rooms are SO clean, the managers/owners are the nicest people, the place feels so homey, and the location and grounds are beautiful. 
There's a restaurant nearby (walking distance) with a great breakfast, and a market across the street. 
The motel is very well maintained, and the managers are so accomodating, it's kind of like visiting family each year! ;-) 
I honestly can't rave enough about this place...it's really a hidden gem worth checking out! 
My favorite cuban cafe in Orlando 
I have been eating Cuban for a long time, sandwiches mainly along with other dishes..
I love Cuban coffee, colada... mmmm anyways I found this place and can't stop going there, I stop in at least once a week and anytime I'm in the area for a Cuban coffee or snack. 
The place is chill and comfortable. 
They don't speak the best English but enough to get by. 
They bake bread fresh daily, they don't press their sandwiches which is the way I like it, and the meat is always fresh. 
They have a great lunch special with your choice of meat, chicken, steak, or pork and rice and black beans and fried plantains. 
And their breakfast is awesome!! 
I cannot describe how delicious the mango and cheese pastries and the omelets are to die for. 
Stop in and have a bite you won't regret it. 
A slice of heaven in winter park off forsyth! 
highly recommended. 
I have been going to Warner Family for a number of years and would highly recommend it to anyone. 
I've read some of the reviews below and would like to state that yes, like any other doctors office there is sometimes a wait (depending on what other patients are being seen for) and some of the tests and procedures that are ran can be costly (just like they would be for any other medical tests elsewhere if you do not have insurance)...
I have seen several of the providers from the office and have not once been shown anything but care and consideration. 
I cant speak for them but any tests or appointments they recommend are probably in the best interests of us (the patient) and you have the ability to decline anything that they suggest to you. 
I personally have had wonderful service and if youre truely looking for a FAMILY practice...Warner Family is the place for you. 
Not what i expected! 
We read the good reviews before going and had high hopes.. but to our dismay it didnt turn out that way! 
~It took over 40 mins to be taken to our table, once there it took another 20 mins to get our orders and a further 45 mins till our starters landed on our table. 
Very frustrating for a restaurant that has 1 rosette and is supposedly renowned for the service... hmm There was no canape's or amuse to keep us occupied, once we complained about the wait they took us something to nibble on but that took us getting out our chairs and wondering round to do that and it was impossible to get anyones attention. 
Scallops were overcooked and the foie gras was cold but the rest of the food was lovely. 
On top of that though they tried to charge us service charge just to rub it it.... 
Wouldn't go back as there are a lot of places A LOT better and cheaper. 
Nice selection, very clean, friendly staff! 
Hot Iron has become a favorite of our family. 
Everyone can get the signature dish with ingredients and spices that they want and have the fun of watching it cook. 
The staff are very friendly and conscientious. 
They always ask if you have meat in your dish, (for vegetarians like me), they scrub an area of the grill and use separate utensils to cook. 
They don't just dump your ingredients on and cook either, but carefully separate meat to the hotter parts of the grill and still manage to keep the veggies from turning to mush. 
The selection of meats, veggies and sauces is awesome too! 
Every time we go they seem to have a different ingredient or two which keeps things interesting. 
Meats are kept VERY cold, seafood smells fresh and the serving bar is VERY clean. 
Prices are reasonable, (Kids meals are around 4.99) and Wednesday's they have discount dinner prices, I believe. 
Great Cookies, Cakes, and Customer Service 
It was my birthday and I had a last minute idea to have a bakery cake instead of one pre-made in a convenience store, but the problem was it was the day before Valentines and when many bakeries turned me down for a plain vanilla rectangle cake, Fiona stepped up to the plate and was able to make a fantastic beautiful cake. 
Not only did it taste wonderful, but the texture was unbelievable, the frosting wasn't overly sweet to over power the cake, and the cake itself was just amazingly soft, and fluffy, and just perfect overall. 
Although I'll have to drive a little out of my way to go there, I'll gladly do it knowing that since she's been astounding to me once before that she'll always be that way! 
(Also she has a really great website! 
And we bought a few cookies there too, they were fantastic as well!) 
She deserves many 5 star reviews!! 
Food Craving Gone and Weight Loss at Acupuncture Doctor 
I am a college student. 
Before treatment, my food cravings were "out of control" which caused me to be stressed out. 
I experienced a Definite Decrease in food craving (about 50%) and decrease in stress after the 1st treatment. 
I actually loss 4 pounds after my 1st treatment and 2 pounds after my 2nd treatment. 
I was amazed. 
I am now more at peace and my food craving is about 99% gone after only 3 treatments. 
Before coming to Acupuncture DOCTOR I was a big baby about needles and only came because my boyfriend's aunt recommended it. 
It hurt very little, felt more like pressure than pain. 
What I like most about Dr. Liau is that she is very caring. 
She talks to you at each appointment. 
I can tell she really cares and wants to help. 
I am SO GLAD to have found Dr. Liau. 
Now I feel more confident wearing my bathing suit in the summer. 
An Asset to Richmond 
For a long time, one big source of entertainment missing from the Richmond City Limits was a first-run multiplex. 
Bowtie has filled that role nicely. 
The theatre is in an old brick warehouse, which is a block away from the Flying Squirrels stadium. 
The owners of Bowtie manged to add something new while preserving what was already there. 
The theatre has greatly improved the surrounding neighborhood. 
There's plenty of parking, and I've never had an issue with audience members who won't stop talking or answering their cellphones. 
Best of all, there are no ads!!!!! 
Just previews and the main feature. 
Expect to pay full price, and the theatres themselves are on the small side. 
But if you like going to the movies, you should love Bowtie. 
The mangers also play a classic movies on Sundays, you can get a beer in the lobby, and repeat customers can get discounts if they have a member card. 
A great cinema in a great location. 
Thank you, Bowtie! 
Craft Wonderland with History 
My first visit was so fun yesterday. 
I could have stayed all day and not seen all the things. 
I am doing origami jewelry and found exactly the right things for earrings and got many other ideas there too. 
I bought a beginners quilling set and like making the filigree forms you can make and add to other crafts. 
The owner, Jean, has been there 31 years! 
What a history. 
She is a super sweet, lovable and well-informed woman with a great sense of humor. 
I really enjoyed meeting her and happy to learn she comes from Oklahoma and has the values of a solid no bs country girl. 
This store is a real gem and has much to offer the serious crafter or the occasional crafter. 
By the way, Salmagundi (the store name) means something like smorgasbord; potpourri; motley; variety; mixed bag; miscellaneous assortment; mixture, a variety of many kinds of things. 
Great name for a great store! 
Shop Local! 
Barbara Quimba 1/30/10 
the 2010 Genesis is grrrrrrrreeeaaat! 
I am a proud owner of a brand new 2010 Hyundai Genesis. 
I have never seen this car before until this lady at wal mart had it and she told me she got it here and that everyone was so nice to her. 
I asked her who she worked with and she just told me ti was the sales manager. 
I took the weekend off and came in and asked for the manager who is Jeff and he remembered her right away even remembered her dog, I was a bit shocked that someone would pay that close attention. 
We got to talking and he got me set up and I test drove with Craig and I fell head over heels for this car all I kept saying, " was I gotta have it!" 
I thouhgt it would be out of my price range but they really worked with me and now I couldnt be happier. 
Jeff and Craig are really good at what they do and know exactly how to treat a customer. 
Definitely go see them! 
Bait and switch, untrained workers 
Called the Bonanza store 2 weeks ago, before I ripped out 350sqft of ceramic tile... was told I would need a "dual head concrete grinder" to remove thinset and make a nice "finished" look (ready for concrete stain). 
Was quoted $55 all inclusive of grinder inserts, etc. 
No problem, sounded like it's done every day. 
Will look beautiful. 
Got the tile ripped out, call today, now all the sudden this grinder won't leave a finished look AND it's $125 PLUS around $75 for the inserts. 
I can rent another machine for like $60 that will give it a finished look. 
So from $55 to $260? 
Are they serious? 
I feel like they didn't tell me the pitfalls before I pulled out this tile and now that I have no other options they want 5 TIMES the price? 
Either these people don't know anything about what they are renting, or worse- they are bait and switching. 
One suspects that earlier reviewer works for another laundry. 
Outside of parking being at a premium, especially on discount days, The Laundry Tub is not filthy and it's no smaller than any of a dozen laundromats I've been in. 
Yes, there are bigger, but bigger isn't necessarily better. 
I availed myself of the wash 'n fold service, taking just about a year's worth of dirty clothes in and getting back neatly folded, clean clothes in clear plastic bags (I'd originally brought them in, in six large yellow garbage bags). 
The cost was certainly reasonable and I will continue my patronage of The Laundry Tub in the future. 
Didn't hurt any that they knew my name by my second visit and greeted me warmly then and on my third visit. 
Whereas my answer to the question "Where do you get your laundry done?" used to be, "At the checkout line at WalMart," I can honestly say the answer now is, "At The Laundry Tub." 
Thank you! 
I recently took a rescue puppy to this Clinic and I was SHOCKED at how well Romeo and My family was treated. 
They worked around the clock to ensure that my puppy life was saved. 
We have to leave him at the vet for 3 days and I was told to call for check ups as often as I wished that no matter how many times I called I would not annoy them.
lol They where super friendly towards us and treated us like people not walking bags of cash. 
In this day its rare to find such wonderful people who CARE , Not the kind of want to make cash. 
I would strongly suggest you give them the chance to prove to you that not all people in this world are evil! 
I will never go to another vet as long as I have animals. 
I live nearly two hours away and yet I will still make the drive to see them! 
Infact I look forward to taking my animals to the vet simply because of how my animals and I are treated. 
Okay, here's the scoop. 
I'ma regular at the HH. 
The food is excellent, the serivce is horrible. 
I think they're still in the mindset from when it was only smokers sitting around and drinking... not in any hurry. 
In my experience the food has been excellent (for the most part). 
However, the bartenders/waitresses definately need to be re-trained (if they ever had any to begin with) and learn two things: only chat with customers when other customers are not impatiently waiting and to look around more often to see if people are waiting. 
In some cases the result is because of understaffing, in some cases the staff just doesn't care/know better. 
They must also get something to keep take-out warm, so it's not room temperature at best when you get it home. 
You just have to know what you're getting into when you go. 
Nice local pub, excellent food (especially wings), and don't go if you have a limited amount of time. 
Trust The Midas Touch 
I personally trust this Midas store with all my vehicles, I have been going there for years & would never go anywhere else! 
the staff is very personable & actually care about the customers safety rather than taking there money. 
This is however a very busy shop but there are appointments available & the staff up front will surely make sure you get back in a timely manner. 
I look at some of these other comments & laugh because people think that the world revolves around them! 
Like the girl with the fuse problem...
Midas has the most high tech equipment in town & I guarantee you if they told you it was electrical then in deed its electrical! 
maybe you should understand how the world works & realize you are just like any other person & not put yourself on a pedestal. 
I will continue going to Dave at Midas because he is one of the most honest business owners in this town! 
When having your car worked on you have to trust the mechanic & this Midas is truly someone you can trust! 
We decided to try this place last night because we noticed that it had some interesting things on the menu aside from the usual rolls-- live scallop sashimi, duck breast nigiri with foie gras, panko mussels-- but none of these were particularly great or worth the sticker price. 
Additionally we tried the Logan Circle roll, spicy crab and tuna roll, and sweet potato tempura roll ($15, $10, and $3.75 respectively). 
The sweet potato tempura roll was actually a great surprise: cheap and delicious, the only thing we tried that I would say was well worth it and a great value (and I never get vegetarian rolls). 
The other rolls weren't at all special, especially given their pricing. 
The bottom line is that the food isn't great and is relatively high-priced. 
The service is solicitous, the atmosphere is nice and mod except the out-of-place flat-screen TV playing football. 
But I'd go elsewhere unless the prices are cut. 
It's just not worth it. 
Don't Expect Sleep or Courtesy 
I was booked for 2 nights at this hotel in Oct 2007. 
At 3:15 am on night #2, the fire alarm and strobe light activated in my room. 
These are not household type alarms. 
When they sound off, it is a true audio/visual experience. 
I called the front desk and got no answer. 
After checking for signs of fire or smoke and seeing none, I decided to just pack up and leave. 
The desk agent actually argued with me, claiming that no such alarm had gone off (as if I would make that up?). 
He finally admitted that only the 4 ADA room alarms had sounded, so only 4 guests were effected (no big deal to him). 
This little drip offered no apologies whatsoever, and even refused to give me the name of the manager until I pressed him for it 3 times. 
This hotel is adequate enough, but there is an obvious problem with the staff and management. 
Do not go there if you expect to sleep through the night. 
Poor Service, Lack of Passion: Do NOT go 
I began seeing Dr. Romanick back in 2000 and have seen a significant decline in the quality of care, patient-doctor communication, and just the overall level of services. 
The poor quality starts at the receptionist desk, where the staff is very impatient and lack the efficiency I once loved about the office. 
It took them nearly two months to complete a simple task, and countless calls from my part due to their lack of response and passion (not that it's a requirement for the job, but it helps to at least pretend to be helpful). 
Also, I was promised to have my test results emailed to me, but it never happened, and after a few attempts to get Dr. Romanick on the phone to brief me on my condition, I finally gave up and went to a different doctor. 
Please do not go there if it's professional, friendly, diligent medical services you're looking for. 
Save yourself the trouble, money and time and visit a more caring facility/doctor. 
The moving company is actualy based in Brooklyn, but advertised all over NY/NJ, including Fort Lee. 
When the guys arrived (2 hours later than agreed) they told that you have to pay all the tolls they payed coming from Brooklyn and extra $100 for them to drive back from your destination. 
That was not in agreement eather, but they realy demand it. 
And another $100 for wrapping the furniture. 
So totalling $212 just for start before any work started. 
Guess what, was not in the initial agreement as well. 
I was moving out from 2 bdr apartment and it took for 3 strong guys 6 hours to load a track (from 2pm-8pm). 
The only reason I'm giving 3 stars instead of 1 or 2, I should admit, nothing was broken. 
So I still can recomend them but prepare pay twice as much as they tell you initially. 
One more thing, they don't take any credit cards or checks. 
You have to pay CASH ONLY before they start unloading track on your destination. 
Worst Apartments EVER 
We lived here for 2 years, the first year or so was okay. 
Then, the more power they gave to Linda, the worse the place got. 
We were always having our water shut off, there were always people having parties at the pool, even after it was supposed to be closed. 
The pool was supposed to close at 10 and they would have people down there until 11:45 yelling, playing music and do who-knows-what in the dark corners of the pool. 
Then, when we moved out, we cleaned the apartment top to bottom, they came back and tried to charge us for two cleaning fees (and we never got our deposit back) and past utilities (that were already paid, we have check numbers and records of this). 
Linda is the rudest person you will ever talk to and she sticks up for all of the trashy, rude people that live there, not the nice ones that actually give a crap about respecting others. 
Do not live here, you will regret it! 
The Worst Experience Ever!!! 
I have worked with Ted Jurek at Decor and You, and it started out as a decent experience. 
He was referred to me by a friend, who didn't have the best experience with Ted, but said that Ted was able to make up for his lack of preparedness at the end. 
I figure I would give this company a chance. 
However, after giving a required $500.00 (NON REFUNDABLE) deposit before seeing any plans or ideas, I was sorry I did. 
We met a couple of weeks later, Ted was late. 
He brought fabric books, and pictures of furniture only, which all came way over budget. 
By the time we got to the budget i told him I could work with, there was basically no design. 
Just curtains and a couple of accessories. 
WHAT IS THAT????? 
This company is way too expensive with nothing to show for it. 
Please everyone....take heed and don't get caught up in the hype about DECOR and YOU working with every budget...
This is just a way for them to squirm their way into your precious pocket 
Horrible. 
Horrible. 
When we walked in, the person behind desk said: "oh well, you must wait, I am in the middle of something." 
After a good few minutes, he asked: "what do you want?" 
Somewhere in between his rudeness he asked if we smoked. 
I asked if this hotel had smoking rooms. 
He immediately said "no, there is a $50 deposit now!" 
Sure enough he charged it to the credit card. 
When I inquired he rudely replied "in the morning when things are checked out you'll get it back." 
I called customer service about it because the website specifically states that there are no other charges at the check-in. 
I also mentioned to the reception person. 
He responded "we have problem with 'people'". 
Imagine a hotel having problems with people. 
I finally alerted him to his rudeness. 
He said he's had a long and bad day. 
We had no choice but to stay but will take this as far as we can. 
Don't stay there. 
I came to find out the person was the hotel OWNER also. 
My friend and I were to stay here for a girls night, catch up on our lives evening. 
We live within 20 miles of the hotel and wanted to get away from our responsibilities for the night. 
Unfortunalty my husband and I had to put our 13 year old lab down that morning and we were not expecting this. 
My friend called the hotel to cancel our room as soon as I called her. 
They said that we were to be charged for this room regardless because we did not cancel within the 72 hours. 
I called them back a few hours after putting my Bodhi down and they still wouldn't budge. 
Times are hard, I know, but they had no compassion. 
I called 3 times to talked to a manager, never a call back. 
I emailed 4 times, never a response. 
In one of the emails I attached the letter from the Vet's that expressed their sympathy, this hotel did nothing. 
I even emailed Mackinaw Tourist and nothing. 
I am sure this is a good place to stay from reading the other reviews, but if something unexpected happens in your life, they will not care. 
FANFUCKINGTASTIC 
Ok I am a New Yorker who has been going to school in Oxford, England. 
I thought the UK was completely devoid of good NYC style pizza. 
I thought to get a decent pizza the only way was at a fancy restaurant, and I have to get a whole pie. 
I thought I would have to wait until I went home to NYC. 
Well then I went on a trip to Glasgow and was walking around. 
I saw this place and it looked like the HOLY GRAIL. 
I knew I had found the real deal, big pies, sold by the slice, with the pizzas sitting under the glass in the front. 
They have crushed red pepper flakes and oregano. 
So I ordered a slice. 
It tasted like I just flew back home. 
I dunno how they did it, but Scottish friends--- this is THE REAL DEAL. 
I congratulated this establishment for doing the research on making NYC pizza because these Scots fcking nailed it. 
That being said, I don't know how their delivery service is. 
They might want to change the name to reflect the new yorkedness of the pizza, scrummy yummy sounds gimmicky to me. 
Good food, good wait staff, poor management 
We visited on 7/26/08 for dinner We received a gift certificate for the Mama Mia's on Greenfield Ave. 
The food was good, and so was our waitress. 
When it came time to pay the bill up front, they would not let me use any of the certificate for a tip (which I have done with any other restaurant I've gotten a gift certificate for.) 
I then asked if I could have money back in cash. 
The person went to go check with the manager, who was sitting at a table chatting with her friends who were eating there. 
Her answer was short and manner rather rude. 
Sorry for interrupting I guess. 
The cashier was also short, unapologetic and made me feel as I was wasting her time. 
There were no other options available (I only brought my check card to cover any overage cost) and she rang it up and applied it to the gift card before telling me about the tip policy. 
I will not be visiting Mama Mia's again. 
There are other places with food just as good with management that values customers and employees much more. 
DINING AT TEXAS ROADHOUSE 
TEXAS ROADHOUSE HAS VERY GOOD MEALS, THAT THE MEAT COMES RIGHT OFF THE BONES. 
IT HAS VERY GOOD PRICES. 
ON A BAD NOTE THE WAITING AREA IS NOT ENJOYABLE OR ENOUGH SEATS. 
ALSO, THERE SHOULD NOT BE PEANUTS ALL OVER THE FLOOR. 
NEXT, THERE SHOULD ONLY BE ONE PERSON BRINGING YOU YOUR FOOD. 
ITS NOT A BIG DEAL BUT I HAD TO TAKE MY SALAD HOME BECAUSE THEY FORGOT TO BRING IT. 
I HAD TO ASK THE GIRL WHO BROUGHT MY FOOD AND SHE NEVER CAME BACK TO LET ME KNOW. 
I HAD TO WAIT FOR MY WAITRESS. 
WHEN YOU FIRST COME IN THE HOSTESS IS NOT VERY FRIENDLY,THERE IS JUST A BUNCH OF WORKERS STANDING THERE. 
I WAS THERE ON MARCH 6TH, 2009. 
I WAS ALSO THERE OF JULY 4TH 2008, WHEN MY DAUGHTERS BUFFALO WINGS CAME OUT WITH A FLY ON IT. 
THE MANAGER CAME OVER AND SAID HE WAS SORRY AND GAVE A NEW BATCH OF WINGS, HE SAID WE CANT REALLY DO ANYTHING BECAUSE THE DOORS ARE ALWAYS OPENING AND CLOSING . 
IN MY OPINION SHOULD OF JUST TOOK OFF THE PRICE OF THE WINGS FROM THE BILL. 
BUT EVERYONE HAS THERE OWN WAY!!!!!! 
Mezza Luna FTW! 
their mezza luna's are deffly better than the pizza rolls. 
its like a pizza roll, but they just toss ham and cheese inside. 
it seems like its healthier too, but its prolly not. 
also, you can call em ahead of time, and then go to pick up ur food, or have it delivered**. 
that cuts down on teh wait time, cus u can do other stuff while ur waiting. 
it usually takes 20mins for a mezza luna, as they have to add pure delicious extract to the mix. 
their pizza was a little salty for me, but its still good. 
they do that whole thing where you sandwich the pepperoni between layers of cheese for +32 delicious. 
anyways, the mezza luna: you should try it. 
it runs you about 4 bucks and it deals crushing blows to hunger. 
**Edit: Living on campus at Clarkson University, I have had food delivered before. 
This was back between '05 and '09 and I don't remember how many times we've had it delivered. 
Perhaps they don't deliver anymore, but the deliciousness of a mezza luna certainly warrants a pickup. 
My 2004 x-type was getting close to 100,000 miles so it was time for an upgrade. 
I sent my wife and daughter over to check out a pre-owned 2009 XF. 
Michael Chestney was very pleasant and patient with my wife and she suggested I go check it out. 
I went in later that afternoon and met with Michael. 
He showed me the car I was interested in and we took a test drive. 
I loved the car so we began negotiating my trade-in and the price of the 09 XF. 
The entire negotiation took about 20 minutes. 
Fair give and take on both sides until we agreed on a deal that was within my parameters and was fair to both sides. 
10 minutes of paperwork and I was the owner of a beautiful pre-owned 09 XF. 
I have purchased over 15 vehicles (cars, rvs, and boats) in my lifetime and I have to say the experience with Michael and Barrett Motor Cars of San Antonio was one of the best. 
Friendly, knowledgeable, and above all fair. 
That's all you can really ask from a car dealer and Michael and Barrett hit all 3. 
Thanks for the great deal and the great car! 
Identity Theft 
Myself and my fiance's identity was stolen from the office staff. 
We were told by a detective and asked to check our credit for anything unusual. 
Luckily they caught the crooks before they did one on us. 
It was a black female that use to work in the office. 
She stole the information and gave it to another guy that did all the work. 
The other guy was pulled over one day and a cop saw suspicious papers with names and social security numbers on it. 
Thats how they were caught. 
They both went to jail and a new manager was put in charge of the apartments. 
The apartment across from mine belonged to a gang of hookers. 
Nobody lived there. 
A girl would show up, then a guy in a nice car would show up. 
Short time later the guy would leave, then the girl. 
My apartment was usually quiet. 
I lived in one that did not face the parking lot. 
Parking spaces are just big enough for a Mini Cooper. 
It sucked having an SUV. 
If I found a spot, I couldnt fit in it. 
Gates worked 30% of the time at best. 
Bugs were a small problem, nothing too bad. 
The best there is in service. 
I was recently traveling down I-24 from Nashville with my 3 young children and had a blowout on the southeast side of Murfreesboro. 
It was 4:50 when a friend told me to call Bud, he would take care of me. 
Not only did they answer the phone at 4:50 on a Thursday, they hit the ground moving!. 
They tracked down the only tire that fit my BMW330i in Murfreesboro within minutes and secured it, then they came out, took off my tire (it was a runflat - but runflats don't do you any good if they blow out), and brought it to their shop to change the tire. 
They were back quickly considering how far outside of Murfreesboro we were and had us on our way by 6:30 that evening. 
Thanks Bud for all of your help and taking time away from your family that evening. 
It's without a doubt, the best service experience I've ever had and just to be clear, the price he charged me was the same as my tire guy in Nashville's price for putting on the other rear tire. 
I hope I can return the favor in the future! 
Alan Grissom 
Room ok. 
Service and Client base not ok. 
I have stayed in this hotel many times, and while it typically offers a decent bang for the buck, its client base largely consists of troubled youngsteers and evictees from the local, not so pleasant hood. 
I have never considered this a real problem as I travel without kids and can fend for myself, but when I had to listen to a (non-violent) domestic fight that lasted from 1 AM to 5 AM during my last stay and I found out that the front desk was unmanned during night hours, my choice was to either waste tax payers money by calling for a yet another police dispatch to this hotel, or just get over it. 
I chose the later, but approached the front desk about the hotel policy to push over their responsibilities on local authorities, not to mention the good nights sleep i paid for but didnt get. 
I was told management would call me back but still waiting for that call. 
I will probably stay here again because its cheap and I cant afford a better hotel, but do not look forward to it and would definitely not recommend this hotel for families or single female travellers. 
Was there this past weekend and the guy behind the counter yelled at me and my son because we believed he left the grandma slice in the oven a little too long and the cheese got all dried out and the slice tasted more like a cracker. 
He preceded to grab the slice off the countertop and throw it into the trash while yelling at me saying, "you do not order what you do not know about" and "you don't know how pizza is made". 
It was very upsetting to see this kind of behavior especially in front of my four year old. 
He was in the process of making me a pie and when I got home, the pie was the worst I have ever seen. 
Cheese was falling off, so oily and greasy. 
I think he did it on purpose because of my simple request for another slice of grandma that wasn't so well-done (actually, burnt). 
I will never go back to this place and I am reporting them to the better business bureau for such horrible customer relations and basically sabotaging my pizza and taking my $25. 
THIS STORY IS 100% TRUE. 
That little man who thinks he invented pizza can kiss my *ss. 
Long Lines, Silly Rules, Rude Staff, Ok Food 
The first thing you notice when you arrive on location is that the waiting line literally goes out the door and spills into the parking lot. 
A restaurant with this many patrons willing to stand in line just to order tacos must be good, right? 
I mean, that's the way it works at amusement parks: the longest lines are at the best rides. 
Well, this may be an exception. 
The staff taking your order and "waiting" on you are very indifferent and have no sense of costumer service at all. 
I have gotten better results talking to COMCAST customer service than with these folks. 
And don't even think about asking to speak to the manager because this guy is, and pardon my French, a jerk. 
If you have gotten through ordering, dealing with the rude staff and if you followed the dumb rules, you are finally presented with what you came for..some tacos that are "ok," but definitely not worth putting up with all the hassle. 
Save yourself the trouble and skip this place all together. 
I suggest you go up to Raging Taco & Raging Burrito a couple of blocks up the street or even Taco Mac. 
Wish this was in Saratoga-- 
We were introduced to Bistro Tallulah by traveler-professional diner who happens to own the Adelphi Hotel and travels the world-- and residing in Paris,London, New York the rest of the year. 
SHE KNOWS GREAT FOOD AND DINING EXPERIENCES. 
She was dead on-- this restaurant was wonderful--- do not be put off by the one negative review on this page. 
I can tell you we were pleasantly surprised -- BT has taste memory and each time back the food was consistently delicious -- same dishes -- were consistent. 
Our friend is a world traveler and loves unpretentious dining experiences and inspired food. 
This chef knows what he is doing. 
Treat yourself and go-- you will go back! 
I am a business owner in downtown Saratoga Springs and wish this restaurant was in our town! 
The affordable rent makes it possible for an inspired chef to serve his high quality fare at affordable prices! 
Unlike Saratoga. 
I rrly seek the cehf out to introduce myself-- but the second time we went-- i made a point of asking our wait person to introduce my friend and myself to the chef to tell him just how good our meals were. 
Cannot wait to go gain. 
-R. Morris . 
I think that there pretty good. 
First of all, if you call for an appointment they won't tell you to call back a month later so you can then make one. 
They also don't tell you that they're going to mail you an "application" to be admitted to be a patient. 
I feel that the way some doctors offices work around here is a little bit absurd so I'm happy that these guys don't do those two things in particlular. 
Usually you can be seen the same week or maybe the following week. 
The doctor did tell me that my male pattern baldness is due to my mothers father because the gene is exclusively passed on through maternal line but that's a common misconception (http://www.consumerreports.org/health/healthy-living/beauty-personal-care/hair-loss-10-08/hair-loss.htm). 
In general I would say that the staff is attentive and nice. 
But then again I was nice to them so that could have been why. 
Anyhow, after reading some of the other reviews it seems like some of the other reviewers are expecting mircles. 
If you want miracles you'll have to go to 21st St. 
It's a pretty typical primary care office but for the area it's very good. 
They don't do certain things that are really annoying about other offices. 
First trip to Canada 
I recently traveled to Canada on business and had a most excellent experience. 
I work for a large retail company recently expanding our operations into Canada and had to travel to ensure all of our computer network equipment was installed properly and on time. 
This can tend to be a stressful experience in itself let alone adding crossing boarders for the first time. 
I was very pleased to find my accommodations and the hotel staff to be a very calming and comforting part of my trip. 
I found the hotel to be amazingly clean, not to mention very well adorned with many pleasant surprises. 
From my first encounter at check in to my regrettable check out I found the staff and facility to exceed my expectation. 
I completely enjoyed my whole check in experience and was impressed with the friendliness and professionalism of the staff as well as the accommodations themselves. 
I will be traveling in this area in the future and you can be assured that this experience will be helpful in my choice of hotels and Novotel will be my first selection. 
Yes the parking can be a challenge but being from NJ I am no stranger to tight corners. 
Please pass my appreciation to the Staff and Management for their excellent hospitality and good spirits as it helped make a stressful trip enjoyable. 
Favorite place in Tampa. 
Update: I had to add to my review. 
I was just in last night and had a chance to dine in their new dining room. 
AMAZING! 
I frequent this resturant on a weekly basis but usally only for lunch. 
Well I was in for a treat when I was greeted by the friendly girls at the counter who asked if my wife and I would like to sit in their "new" dining room. 
Right away they told us that it was the same great food with the same prices so off we went. 
We were greeted again and sat promptly. 
After looking at the menu and seeing the new menu items they had, we knew we were in for a treat! 
I had the Chicken Parmesan Dinner and my wife had the Shrimp Scampi Dinner. 
AMAZING! 
The portions were generous enough that we even took some home! 
I have to say the value of this place always amazes me. 
It's nice to see that even in the economy we can eat a place that has upscale service, amazing atmosphere, and Incredible food, but not break the bank while enjoying it! 
Bottom line is that when it's a small privatly owned resturant like this is you can tell that the owners and employees take pride in their product and service. 
Well Done! 
Great work and honest establishment! 
I typically have work done on my Jeep at the dealership, but it is 6 years old now and getting charged dealership prices just didn't seem cost effective anymore. 
I had tried out few place around the area and had been ripped off a few times. 
I had hear great things about Phet and G&G Automotive so I decided to give him a try. 
The service was excellent and personable. 
He checked out what I needed to have done told me what needed be fixed before he did any work and did great repair work. 
The price was actually lower than what I had anticipated and used to compared to other places, plus he showed me the work he did when I came into pick up the car. 
Also, a week after the work, Phet called me up to see how my car was running and to let me know that they had accidentally overcharged me for part of the work and wanted to give me a refund for that amount. 
That is just unheard of these days! 
I grew up in a small town where you knew and trusted your mechanic and was really cynical about city auto repair shops since I moved here, but Phet has shown that there really are honest hard working mechanics around. 
He is my mechanic going forward! 
Our company is a high end designer handbag and fashion accessories company, thus we are certainly a niche market. 
We had been evaluating SEO providers for quite some time and finally decided to take the plunge with Stuart, and Ulistic. 
We made the decision for a couple of reasons. 
1. Social Media. 
We were familiar with Search Engine Optimization strategies, but new nothing about Social Media - we just heard that it was the next big thing. 
2. We really liked the fact that Stuart sets defined objectives and we meet once a month to go over our Key Performance Indicators. 
How has it gone so far? 
Well we have been working with Ulistic for 1.5 months, and have 100 people following our site on Facebook, and our web site, www.designofashion.com has seen a 3 fold increase in traffic, which is significantly beating our expectations - SEO is a process that takes time and to get results this quickly is exceptional. 
We are absolutely confident that Stuart's ethical and focused strategies will see these trends continue to grow, and our business will reap the rewards of this program. 
Finally, it must be said that Stuart is a fantastic person to work with, because of his solid strategies and equally as importantly because he is a genuinely good person and a great communicator. 
Excellent service and quality 
I had Hom-Excel replace most of the windows in my Tampa residence three years ago. 
The excellent windows have performed without any problems, but that's not why I'm writing my review. 
Three weeks ago, burglars tried to gain entry into the rear of my home. 
The intruders slit the screen of the window. 
Next, they tried to force the window with a pry bar and then to break the window with a hammer. 
The window didn't break! 
My next-door neighbor heard the noise and turned on a light, thankfully scaring the two miscreants away (they even left their hammer behind!). 
I called Home-Excel the next day to order a replacement screen for the window, and was happily surprised when they said that they weren't even going to charge me for the replacement screen...that it would be covered under their guarentee. 
Lo and behold, they replaced the screen (which had to be ordered) yesterday and didn't charge me a dime. 
Their worker even cleaned 3 of my windows and changed a lightbulb for me. 
In this day and age, it is so rare to find a company with such nice workers and such far ranging guarantee policies. 
I rarely write reviews such as this one, but they certainly deserve anyone's business! 
Friendly staff, but definitely some problems 
May, 2009. 
We were booked at the Sheraton with a number of other out-of-town wedding guests. 
Got put into the wrong room the first night, and were quite surprised to have someone with the same room key trying to get in the door at 1:00 am! 
Next day got moved into another room, on the same floor with other wedding guests. 
There were 3 adults in our room but towels for only 2, no linens for sofa bed. 
In the second room it took 3 tries to get all the towels and linens we requested. 
A package and some wedding cards were left in our first room. 
They were sent to our second room and had been opened--the ribbon-wrapped present, and all 3 envelopes. 
Security in the hotel seemed to be excellent, but we were never given an explanation as to why someone would open these items. 
A mid-afternoon "fire drill" was disruptive, putting everyone out of the hotel. 
When we called the front desk about an extremely boisterous crowd in the hall outside our door quite late at night, it seemed to take the hotel staff quite a while to quiet them down. 
The staff was friendly, especially the front desk female supervisor, and seemed to want to help, but too many unusual things happened to make us want to stay there again. 
Be Careful Of Who Your Sales Guy Is 
I think this place is probably really great especially judging by the reviews on here. 
My experience was awful though. 
It ALL had to do with the sales guy which was a young 22 year old who had admittedly only been working for 2 weeks. 
I was extremely interested in the car and very likely would have bought it, but the sales guy I dealt with ruined the deal. 
Essentially, I told him I didn't trust him cause he was a car salesman, but he got so incredibly offended at that statement that he had to go cry to another salesman and compose himself before coming back. 
I don't know if the kid had a bad day or what, but I had to sit and apologize about nothing for 10 minutes until he dropped the issue. 
After that, I just tried to ignore his lack of professionalism and test drive the car. 
I played dumb and asked him questions that I already knew the answers to and he responded with half truths and a few falsehoods. 
For instance I asked who owned Mazda and he said with confidence that was GM, which isn't true. 
I mean, I don't care if he doesn't know, but if he pretends to know and tells me BS to my face, there's no way I'm going to trust him when matters turn to the price of the car and financing. 
The Worst Chinese I've Ever Had 
This is by far the worst chinese food I have ever had. 
The service stunk. 
I called in my order and upon arriving to pick it up, they got my order confused with someone elses. 
They helped about three other people before they offered to help me again. 
They also got my friends order mixed up and wanted to charger her $10 more than what she had wanted. 
She asked for the dinner combo and they gave her two dinner plates instead. 
We were standing in the store for 20minutes to simply pick up an order. 
Not to mention that the wait staff was about as pleasant as dealing with an angry bull. 
They were abrasive and rude - when they were the ones who messed everything up. 
We had to throw out about 80 percent of our meals because the food tasted so horrible. 
I dont know how it is possible to make orange chicken, sesame chicken and kung pao chicken as well as cheese puffs taste THAT bad but China Delight accomplished that. 
The only thing that was edible was the steamed rice and the vegetable lo mein was barely tolerable. 
I will NEVER go here again. 
Lucky Panda in Willis is a billion times better in service and quality of the meal. 
I have no idea how China Delight won number 1 Chinese restaurant in Montgomery - There needs to be a recount on that vote. 
Terrible Service 
One of the worst experiences I've ever had with a auto repair shop. 
We took our vehicle in for a repair to the air conditioning. 
Approx 4 months later, the compressor went out. 
We took it back in to have it repaired again, and less than a week later the second compressor went out. 
We went in for a third visit and they fixed it again, but this time when we picked up the car, the radio and clock did not work. 
So for the 4th time in 5 months and the third time in 2 weeks, we brought the car back again. 
When we expressed our discontent to the manager (that's right, the manager), did he say he would return some money, did he say he would give a discount on our next visit, did he just say "I'm sorry". 
Nope, none of the above. 
He stood there and told us how he wasn't at fault. 
It was the fault of the parts supplier, and can we imagine how he felt having to put another 2 hours of work in the car. 
And what did we expect...that he bench test every part. 
At no time during the conversation did the words, "I'm sorry" ever come out of his mouth. 
I, nor anyone else in my family, will ever go to Sun Devil Auto again. 
Well, unless of course the third compressor he put in the car goes out. 
Do not use this company! 
I dropped off a sheet metal piece that I needed copied due to th it was needing to be replaced. 
I asked if they could copy the piece I dropped off. 
They said it would be made exactly like the one I needed to replace. 
I picked it up when it was finished and was charge 30.00. 
When I got to the job and tried to insert the new piece of metal IT WOULD NOT FIT!! 
I took the original piece of metal and rigged it to make due since I had to complete the job. 
I took the receipt and the metal that did not fit and asked Pomper for my money back. 
The girl at the desk was sooo rude I could not believe it! 
She told me she could not use the piece I was returning and the company would only put it in the trash so I could not return it. 
I explained I did not get what I paid for. 
She asked me to bring the original piece back and I told her I had to use it on the job. 
She told me that was to bad she would do nothing to help me since she could not use or resell the piece. 
I said I was going to trash it also and could I at least have a credit. 
With a smirk on her face she told me NO MONEY IS BEING RETURNED and THAT IS THE WAY IT WAS. 
DO NOT USE THIS COMPANY. 
There are to many people that need our business to have to put up with this unfair treatment!!!!! 
I would NEVER recommend this gym to anyone and unfortunately this is based solely on the owner's own unprofessionalism. 
When I originally joined in January I only did so because I was told I would be able to cancel the 12 month membership if I was to move away. 
I signed up with one of the staff who was very pleasant and professional. 
Actually working out there was good - the machines are nice and the classes are fun. 
The locker room is certainly lacking - I would never shower or change there. 
They need to update the locker rooms ASAP. 
Back to my poor rating - I was excepted to medical school and went in to cancel my membership as I was told I could do since I was moving away. 
The owner was VERY rude, accused me of not reading my contract, and basically told me to shut up when I was trying to ask questions to further understand the process of canceling my membership. 
I was able to cancel it but only after paying a $50 fee (which the staff person who signed me up stated I would not have to pay if I had proof of moving) and being spoken to in a very belittling manner. 
I would understand if I was being treated this way by a staff member but the club's actual OWNER?! 
Bad for business. 
I was appalled. 
I will never recommend this gym to any woman. 
The equipment and classes aren't good enough to deal with the rudeness from the staff!!! 
There are better places on the Cape - FITNESS 500! 
The Salon Experience from Hell 
I feel obligated to share this story. 
Right out of college I called the salon and explained my situation. 
Just graduated, just moved, not rich, and starting new job soon. 
I never got a price quote over the phone and they take your cc info just to make the appointment because if you don't show up, they'll charge you. 
I had this ridiculous celebrity stylist from LA named Derrick. 
After he already put product on my hair he said "I should warn you, I'm expensive." 
What was I supposed to do, say I can't afford you and walk out with crap all over my hair. 
I wanted to be very blonde and instead he pulled my root color throughout my whole hair which is a gross mousey brown. 
The other stylists around me kept pressuring me saying he's so wonderful, you're going to love your hair. 
$400 later my jaw dropped when the receptionist told me the total. 
Derrick did a terrible job, was a complete jerk the entire time, and I had no warning as to the price. 
I cried the entire way home. 
He then "fixed" it for free but it still looked like crap. 
I will never go back. 
It was the salon experience from absolutely Hell. 
He also told me that he worked on the cast of will and grace and that they were all jerks. 
That's my favorite show of all time. 
I'm pretty sure for the cast that it was the other way around. 
Maybe he didn't do a good job and they told him so. 
Absolute Nightmare! 
STAY AWAY! 
Very unhappy ... 
Working with Rod Jacobsen was my first experience working with a CPA, so I did not know what to expect. 
That said - he seemed to be doing well enough. 
However, then I asked to amend my return to apply a credit I had just become eligible for. 
I expected to pay for this service, but imagine my surprise when I received a bill for MORE than what I paid to have the original return prepared. 
Asked why, Rod simply told me that he had to research how to do the amendment (it was an amended to show that I had purchased a home - nothing out of the ordinary, one would think) and that took time to figure out. 
Well, that was strike one. 
I wasn't going to use them again, but I was going to leave it at that. 
However, now that I have come to realize that I am going to owe the IRS $6,000+ despite doing exactly what Rod told me to do, I feel I have to voice my opinion. 
Last year, after all was said and done, I asked Rod whether my payment structure would leave me with no/little tax liability at the end of the year. 
He said yes. 
Well, again, I am now faced with a tax bill of $6,000+, all due on April 15, 2010 and all that Rod has to say to the matter is 'well, you won't have to pay a penalty.' 
I may not have to pay a penalty, yet, but this is NOT what I had in mind when hired these guys. 
In the words of my new accountant, THEY LET ME DOWN! 
Bit sketchy, sporadic delivery times 
I bought about half of the furniture I own from this place. 
Why? 
Because they cut me good deals if I paid in cash. 
Sketchy, right? 
Well they came through and delivered almost all of my items within a few days. 
(They even got me a couch pretty quickly.) 
The guy who was cutting me the deals and getting me the furniture quickly, Ahmed, was nice and mostly professional, except the semi-sketchiness. 
Then one day, Ahmed left the country, not to return for months, WITHOUT informing me. 
He also neglected to tell the other person working at the store about a dining room table that I had ordered and that was supposed to be coming in. 
The other person working at the store didn't know that I still had this table coming. 
I had paid in cash, and he said he had no receipt/record of my purchase. 
I came back with the receipt Ahmed had provided upon my purchase, and the guy took forever to copy it but said that he would take care of the situation. 
I waited. 
And waited. 
He never once contacted us. 
I've had to pester this new guy several times to ask when my table will arrive. 
He kept saying different arrival/delivery dates and didn't seem terribly apologetic. 
It has been 3 weeks and I STILL don't have my table (which was NOT cheap, I might add). 
Point is: You might be able to get a good deal on some nice furniture -- which I did -- but they're not very communicative and god forbid something goes wrong, you'll have to fight to get it resolved. 
Poor Service 
Run don't walk. 
My experience with Home Delivery Service has been one of disappointment and anger. 
If I could give them a lower rating than poor I would. 
On August 21st, 2009 I ordered furniture from Hickory Furniture Mart and contracted for HDS to deliver it. 
After seventeen days the delivery van showed up at my home minus two pieces. 
I was later told they had been left at the warehouse and some future date they would be delivered. 
No one will give me a date. 
I spent $2300 on the bedroom suite, which was complete and excellent condition on the showroom floor. 
Upon delivery it was clear the entire set was damaged: a piece of wood was broke on the headboard; the chest of drawers was missing all four pieces necessary to attach the legs; the dresser back legs were pushed in causing the dresser to lean into the wall; and a nighstand was missing a drawer. 
How do you lose a drawer. 
After complaining on September 10th to National Home Furnishings, Boyles, the Hickory Furniture Mart and Home Delivery Service the latter finally called me back and said they would be up to pick the dresser and chest of drawers at some future point and at some later point it would be professional repaired and at some later point it would be returned. 
The customer service at Home Delivery Service was terrible let alone their promise to proper set up furniture. 
So I am in limbo regarding a bedroom suite. 
I hope the owners and employees of this store have broken bedroom suites in their homes and furniture sitting in someone's warehouse. 
Maybe then they will begin to understand poor customer service and terrible sit up service. 
Excellent Driving School 
I was involved in a car accident 20 years ago and since then I've been a nervous wreck and haven't been behind the wheel. 
Unfortunately, a family emergency required me to conquer this fear. 
A very good friend of mine highly recommended the Professional Driving School and I was told to specifically ask for Gerry. 
She highly recommended him and described him as the "Saintly Instructor and Simply the Best Instructor there is ....very calm, pleasant and very detailed in giving instructions". 
I called the school most probably 10 times before I finally enrolled in a 20 hour package. 
I had to cancel my initial lesson 4 times and on the 5th attempt the management was quick enough to associate my cancellations with my fear and finally encouraged me into taking my initial lesson. 
Five minutes before my initial lesson, I got a call from Gerry advising me of his arrival and to come down as soon as I was ready. 
My heart pounded as I walked down and pounded even faster upon seeing Gerry in an SUV - Lexus! 
I thought of canceling the lesson once again because I didn't feel comfortable driving an SUV. 
Gerry pleasantly said " since I am already here why don't we give it shot. 
I trust you and believe that you'll be able to handle this and all you have to do is to reciprocate! 
Trust me and most especially trust and believe in yourself. 
Don't worry, I'll take care of you!" 
....... the rest was history! 
Here I am now driving confidently on my own. 
Gerry, I can't thank you enough for helping me cope with my fear. 
To my friend, thank you for your recommendation... you were true to your words in saying Gerry is a "Saintly Instructor ...Absolutely Simple the Best Instructor and Best Driving school there is! 
Review on House of Joy Chinese Restaurant 
My family and I moved to San Antonio a year ago and have tried almost all of the Chinese Restaurants because we love Chinese food. 
Well it took us a while to find one that we liked. 
But we don't just like House of Joy WE LOVE IT. 
Everything we have gotten there has been more authentic and better tasting than any other Chinese restaurant in the San Antonio area we have been to--and trust me we have been to a lot of them. 
We just happen to stumble across this little restaurant one day when we had to visit the Bexar County Tax Office off of Bandera Road. 
We stopped in and got some take out and cannot stop going back. 
They have the best Egg Drop Soup I have ever tasted. 
We also love their Egg Rolls and Spring Rolls. 
And every entree we have ordered is perfect. 
Everything is always cooked fresh and tastes fresh. 
Their prices are extremely reasonable for the amount of food you receive. 
The staff is also just so pleasant to deal with. 
They are also quick at getting your order out to you. 
You don't have to sit and wait around forever like most places!! 
So anyone looking for an Excellent night out for Chinese or maybe just lunch should stop in and try it because I promise you 2 things---You won't regret it!! 
and you will go back for more!!! 
Karla Ferguson-Granger 
PS I have noticed on here that someone left a comment that "all of the nice comments must come from co workers or friends" and I will tell you that I don't know these people except from eating at their restaurant. 
We are from Virginia and just moved here a year ago. 
So that comment is completely false. 
Because we think IT'S THE BEST!!! 
and we don't know them except for eating there. 
Dr. Strzalka at Flagship CVTS is not a good doctor 
I am not sure about the quality of the other doctors there, but i do know from personal experience that Dr. Christopher T. Strzalka is not a man of his word, and is also very CRUEL AND UNCARING!! 
He was going to operate and replace my bicuspid aortic valve due to critical aortic stenosis. 
I had a surgery date of July 17, 2008. 
Then he renigged when he read my Health Care Proxy, even though i agreed to be on the ventilator for 2 months following surgery (as he had twice stated i must agree to). 
He later said that by 2 months he "meant at least two months". 
Two months and at least two months are totally different things. 
He did not even give me the chance to say i would stay on the ventilator longer, which i would have. 
A Health Care Proxy is not written in stone and can be changed. 
He also never even said he was sorry. 
Just said i was inoperable and walked out of the hospital room. 
So, therefore, now he says i am inoperable (even though i am not 100% inoperable), and he is letting me die. 
I am just middle aged and do not want to die, but thanks to this doctor i have no other alternatives. 
I, along with my friends, consider this doctor to be the cause of my death as he is not even trying to save my life by operating. 
Even my PA i went to the other day said "it must by comforting to have gone to a heart surgeon like him who will do nothing for you". 
He said it sarcastically. 
If you want a doctor who will lie to you and say he will operate and then change his mind, and not know what he is talking about when he recommends procedures at other hospitals and says they are what you need, when they will not work for you, go to this doctor...he is the one for you. 
What you can learn from the below 'bad experience'. 
I would suggest not avoiding Second Home based on the 'bad experience' review. 
I'd probably be more inclined to board my two dogs here, seeing that they don't just take every dog coming in. 
I've toured this place and was impressed by how clean the place was, and all the options for the dogs. 
It's unfortunate that bmil believed that his 'perfect' dog was not given the right opportunity to prove himself. 
But I've done hundreds of dog introductions myself (another place, I don't work here), and owners can have unrealistic expectations and views of what they see when their dogs meet other dogs. 
Workers who do these introductions look at the interaction objectively; and it's good to see they are able and willing to say no if they feel there would be a problem. 
It sounds (according to your own statement) that they had a roomful of dogs, so they must be doing something right - and are keeping those dogs safe from potential problems. 
You say you work a lot, and that you have a young dog; so I have little doubt that your dog is just filled with energy to burn; and it is good of you to look for a place to take him. 
But not at a risk to other people's pets. 
You were clearly given another alternative by Second Home, to board him - which might have given your dog a chance to come and go from Second Home a couple times, getting used to the place and maybe facilitating another attempt to get into daycare later. 
No business is going to push customers away without good reason; so isn't it reasonable to think they might know what they're doing? 
My dogs are far from perfect, and one of them I believe would be a little much for daycare here herself (at least initially). 
Be a little more reasonable with your expectations of a place like this; and maybe don't jump to personal attacks suggesting that they don't want to work hard, just because you bruised your own ego. 
Dumbest F'ers ever 
I called dominos tonight, it rang forever, I get put on hold twice without saying a word and FINALLY someone says, MAY I HELP YOU? 
So I say: I'm at the Radison Warwick hotel in Rittenhouse Square (built in 1926) do you deliver to the Warwick? 
They say no, Warwick in New Jersey, Call New Jersey. 
I laugh and say, no, that Warwick is in New York, but I'm at the Radison-Warwick. 
And he says: You're at Warwick in Pennsylvania? 
and I said, YES, CENTER CITY PHILLY, and he says, NO, Warwick is a township, If you're at a Radison in Warwick thats too far, try dominos in Pottstown. 
I say, NO, I am at the RADISON WARWICK HOTEL in Rittenhouse Square. 
He says: I not know that town, I have to get to work, I'm in PHILLY. 
Call dominos in your town. 
I SAY LISTEN: I'm at 17th and LOCUST, do you deliver there? 
He says, I have to have an exact ADDRESS. 
OK, 1701 LOCUST STREET i say. 
he says: Why you tell me your in WARWICK TOWNSHIP? 
He gives the phone to a girl, she says, I have to have your address, I say, do you deliver to 17th and locust, she says, your exact address, I say 1-7-0-1 Locust, ARe you sure? she asks? 
YES I am sure, well, she says, is that ON 17th STREET. 
Yes, I say. 
17th, like over by 16th and 15th YES, I say, one mile west of you. 
You're at 7th. 
I am just south of Walnut. 
She says, Is that 17th like over past broad. 
YES, I am west of broad. 
Broad, I say, is 14th street and I am 3 blocks west of broad and one south of walnut. 
Hmmm, she says, Then why are you calling here, we don't go past broad? 
Anyway, after much yelling and cussing I hung up, grabbed a cab, and went to Geno's. 
Quick to take money but not quick to fix a problem! 
B&B came out very quickly to give us our quote back in June. 
They were very polite, eager to answer any questions and willing to wait for us to return from vacation to begin installing our fence. 
Our fence was installed quickly in August and they had their money and left saying "Workmanship is guaranteed for a year!". 
Within a week we noticed one of the boards on our gate splitting where a nail had gone in. 
We called our representative who assured me he would call the office and have it taken care of. 
We heard nothing. 
We then called the office and the man we spoke to said he'd send someone out to look at it but couldn't promise when- two weeks came and went and we heard nothing. 
I just called again and was told that workmanship, not wood, is guaranteed for a year- well in my opinion- the wood split due to a nail which is part of workmanship! 
She even went so far as to say "Your calling about one board?" 
Well- when you pay over $1000 for something you want it to hold up and look good!!! 
YES! 
I WAS calling about one board!! 
I'm very frustrated at this point- it would take all of 10 min for them to come by and replace the one board that is cracked (the crack is deep enough to stick a penny in it and it goes clear through) yet they do not want to take the time to bother with what once WAS a happy customer and has now become a dissatisfied customer. 
So I figure if they don't want to take the time to fix the fence that they installed then I'll take the time to let everyone I can know about how they treat customers once they have your money!!! 
STAY AWAY!!! 
YOU GET WHAT YOU PAY FOR!!! 
They came in under a lot of other quotes and now I know why!!! 
When the fence was first installed I would have given them five stars, now for their poor customer follow-up and unwillingness to fix the fence they have dropped to a one-star in my opinion! 
Lots of rules, phantom innkeeper, last minute price was worth it. 
I called the "207" number and listened to the same recording loop 3 times before I gave up. 
I then called the 800 number (which was answered) and inquired about last minute rates. 
They had a room with a $99 rate, which I booked. 
The room was supposed to be on the 2nd floor, but they put us on the 3rd. 
The email confirmation (which I read in the car) warned about large suitcases, declaring that we are innkeepers, not longshoreman. 
In other words, they do not help with suitcases, but they promise totes to help. 
However upon our arrival no one there (the inn was open). 
So no totes. 
Finally a chambermaid stuck her head around the corner from the top of the stairs and told us sternly that we could not be accommodated until 3M, no exceptions. 
Then she was gone. 
We returned after 3PM, found no one there, and a note from the innkeeper with directions to our room. 
Rules in the room: #1) if you drink the soda from the fridge in your room you must prove it by leaving the can in the trash. 
If they think you've taken a soda from your room home with you, they will charge you $1.50 per can. 
They count the cans in the trash to make sure. 
#2) If you take the shampoo products home, they will charge you $8 per item. 
#) If you want a late checkout, (after 11 AM) they charge you $15 for the first hour, $25 for the second hour, and after 2PM it's a full day charge. 
#4) Breakfast is 8AM to 10AM. 
No earlier and no later. 
If you go later, it's all cleaned up. 
(By whom, I don't know. 
I never saw anyone there. 
All these rules are posted in the rooms.) 
Snacks: uninspired bread, tea backs, and individual coffee things for a machine that didn't exist. 
I put the coffee thing in hot water and settled for a cup of weak coffee. 
No wine glasses. 
Room was clean, but had a weird, dated, sink/stove combo that didn't work. 
Bath was clean except shower stall which had mildew problems. 
No tub. 
The Inn touts a shower with dual shower heads, but only one worked. 
Don't get the rooms off the two kitchens. 
They are RIGHT OFF the kitchen so you hear everything. 
Free parking. 
I'd go back if I could get the last minute rate again of $99, but I wouldn't pay their rack rate. 
Quit with the overstatements! 
The worst thing that can happen for any restaurant like Zahav is to have too many people write hyperbolic reviews making claims that "everyone" is going to "love" the food, decor and service. 
The truth is, in my and my dining partners' experience, this is a fine little restaurant with some unique food. 
It's an entirely up and down experience, however. 
Now, the best of that unique food comes at the very beginning of the meal. 
The salatim salads are the smallest plates I've ever seen placed in front of me (you would most likely think they were condiments if it weren't explained to you). 
Though they are mostly excellent, you generally don't get enough forkfuls to know if you really love them. 
That being said, the laffa and hummus are out of this world. 
Then again, for the three of us who dined together, two pieces of flatbread left us fighting for more, and licking the hummus from our fingers (and yes, those two pieces of flatbread did represent a three-person order). 
Dinner was also an up-and-down experience. 
The vegetarian dishes and lighter fare were almost always spot-on, while the lamb was often dry and/or overcooked. 
The duck was a 65% glob of chewy fat with no resemblance to the juicy, crispy delicacy it usually represents at other establishments. 
Dessert was... hmmm, that's interesting, I don't even remember dessert. 
I guess that tells you a lot. 
Oh, yes, the chocolate semifreddo was quite good. 
The warm chocolate cake was very tasty, but served at room temperature, not warm by any stretch of the imagination. 
And my--no, I still don't remember what I had. 
Service was average, but nothing special, and restaurants that are supposed to be excellent should do a better job of training their waitstaff to be communicative and friendly, not merely capable. 
Perhaps had we not gone into this restaurant believing Zahav was going to be golden as its name suggests (and as the many golden reviews seem to attest), we would have enjoyed a decent little expensive experience. 
But one should not go here expecting something fantastic, unless perhaps you've never had middle-eastern food before, or succulent duck, tasty lamb, decent portion sizes or actually warm chocolate desserts. 
PS) When we called for a reservation, we were told that 5:00 and 9:30 were their only openings. 
When we arrived at 5, and left circa 7, there were the same 4 or 5 empty tables surrounding us. 
Did they think we were going to feel lucky to get any reservation at all, and therefore be more pleased with our dining experience? 
MUST READ - Do not waste your time in this store. 
At my appointment the girl helping me was unable to adequately lace up some of the dresses. 
They felt like they were going to fall off of me and it was very difficult to see what I would actually look like were I to purchase some of these dresses. 
I thought it would be a good idea to see how a few that I liked would look like on a model (by looking the dress up online). 
So, as I was leaving I asked for the designer/dress name or style number associated with my top picks. 
They said they were "unable to tell me until they ordered my dress". 
Hmmm... A person cannot call a company, if you have no idea its name (since the designer is unknown... SUPPOSEDLY), and order a gown without a dress name or style number. 
Do other brides fall for this??? 
They either: a) don't want to give it to me because they don't want me purchasing the dress elsewhere or b) are recreating the dresses themselves (ie STEALING other designers' dress designs and "filling the orders" by their own seamstresses). 
I'm no detective but... uhh... seriously?!? 
Whatever type of operation they are running, I'm not interested and if you're smart, you won't be either. 
What a waste of TIME. 
Aside from that little *mystery*, one of the sales ladies was quite comfortable telling me how wrong I was about how another dress that I loved compared to one of her dresses that I was trying on. 
Somehow, since she supposedly doesn't know any names of designers/dresses, after I told her the designer and dress name of the one I was comparing, she knew "exactly which dress" I was referring to and disagreed with my observation; she said that the bodice did come as low as the one I had on. 
My point: Even if I was wrong, don't sit there and argue with the customer. 
Say something like, "Huh. 
I didn't think so but you could be right." 
Unless you want to take the "tell the customer how wrong she is and try and force her into a dress she's obviously not loving" approach which will likely get you... uh... nowhere. 
Seriously: do not waste your time. 
Other shops around this city have MUCH NICER and more TRANSPARENT owners. 
Not owners that seem like they have something to hide and know nothing about common courtesy and customer service. 
I felt very much like Wedding Gallery was being dishonest and I wouldn't trust them to lace me up in another gown let alone trust them with the gown I will wear on the most important day of my life. 
AWFUL SERVICE! 
After happily visiting Sear's Automotives in the past, I was shocked at the horrible service received at their Greensboro location. 
I brought my car in on a Sunday to replace a shredded tire. 
I waited about 20 minutes in the store part before anyone was able to assist me and was then told to pull my car into the shop (that is apparently what you are supposed to do, but the big signs pointing you that way are for some reason kept inside the garage, so you don't see them drving up, and they purposely block the front pull-up that all other Sear's use). 
Once inside, I had to stand around for at least 10 more minutes before--FINALLY-- a technician got to me. 
Once I returned to pick up my car, you can believe I spent quite a bit MORE time standing around waiting. 
I had wanted to split the total between a credit card and check card since I was being reimbursed for the tire but was told this wasn't possible. 
Once I actually got back in my car, it was dirty and had grease all over the steering wheel. 
OK, one bad experience...fine. 
The following Friday, I returned with my car to go ahead and replace the other 3 tires, which were worn. 
I would not have gone back, but I couldn't find the particular tire they'd used in stock anywhere else. 
Once again, I waited for quite a bit before being attended to. 
I got the order completed, and then questioned the technician since it came out about $40 less than I expected. 
He said it was the same tire, and verified this, after checking both the actual tire on my car and my service papers from earlier in the week. 
However, when he printed out the service quote, I could see that it was NOT the correct tire, and was not even an appropriate tire for my car model. 
So I pointed this out to him, at which point he said they only had one of the correct tires in stock. 
Ok--fine. 
So I got just my other rear tire replaced. 
They promised it'd be done within an hour, so I waited in the lobby. 
Over two hours later (and ten minutes before they closed) my car was finally finished. 
A few minutes after I left, I was called and informed that "I" left my wheel lock (which they should have left in the car). 
Of course, they would be closing in 5 minutes, so I would have to hurry up or get it the next day. 
Of course I couldn't make it back in time (and they apparently could not stay 5 extra minutes to wait for me). 
The next day, no one could find my wheel lock and that particular technician was not in. 
Of course, they couldn't call him either to ask about it because apparently they don't keep their employees' phone numbers (riiight), so I would have to return on Monday (driving for 3 days now with no wheel lock should I get a flat). 
On Monday I called and again it was a big to-do to find anyone who knew anything about it. 
Supposedly they will be holding it for me this evening, but I'm sure that will also be a huge ordeal. 
The employees at this Sear's are completely apathetic and there didn't seem to be any sort of management that I could see. 
I will never return there again (and now have some serious doubts about the quality of work they actually performed on my car). 
