From this standpoint, the evaluation of the implementation of the budget may take on a dimension that overrides matters of detail. 
Errors of legality and regularity are increasing too. 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 
The main importance of this agreement lies, I think, in its political nature. 
The Council is extremely concerned at the latest developments in the Middle Eastern peace process. 
Otherwise we will find ourselves forced to take more serious decisions as regards our trading relations with Israel. 
Ojala recommendation for second reading (A4-0072/97) 
British Conservatives also believe that the Commission is wrong to bring forward this proposal in the name of the European Single Market. 
Within the European Union, resale right exists in the legislation of eleven Member States, but it is only really applied in eight. 
This report is no exception. 
There are several reasons for this. 
The European Commission maintains that everything depends on supply. 
For the longer term, the preparatory mission recommended economic and financial aid to Albania. 
Greece, Italy, France, Spain and Austria, have understood that something has to be done and now have a presence in Albania. 
The European Union is not a military organization. 
Many aspects of the transition have already been successfully debated and worked out, for example continuity in Kong's civil service. 
The European Union's economic interests in Hong-Kong are both large in scale and deep-rooted. 
I assure the House firmly that Hong-Kong will not slip from our sights in the Commission. 
An unsuccessful transition will equally damage us all. 
I also want to express my disagreement on the support given to the American law on Hong-Kong. 
Let us say there has been an attempt to put technical make-up on the political face. 
That is the line taken in the reports before you today. 
We know that the refiners already have refineries producing clean diesel, but not for Europe. For the United States and Japan. 
It is precisely when engines are claimed to be environment-friendly because they consume less fuel that we can not make any exceptions. 
It needs greater definition on the issue of what is to be done at Community level in terms of employment policy. 
Subject: The cost of enlargement 
Everyone knows that it is politically impossible to turn to the Member States and ask for an increase in the Membership fee. 
The sum of 12 million ECU has been made available for possible initiatives agreed with Cyprus for projects to promote confidence-building measures. 
Naturally, the Turkish Cypriots will have a place in the representation of the lawful and internationally recognized government of Cyprus. 
Question No-6 by Mr Pirker (H-0218/97) 
Subject: Europol 
No major obstacles to ratification have been reported. 
How long will the transitional period be following Polish accession in the case of the free movement of persons? 
This procedure guarantees that all countries applying for membership are treated equally. 
I would remind you that the negotiations with Spain and Portugal lasted seven years. 
This appears to be the case with the events which Mr Lomas reports in his question. 
These statements are widely reported in the press. 
Even civil servants at national and local government level in Britain are not allowed to get involved in electioneering as the Commissioners are doing. 
Do you not think some of them, not all, are getting too big for their boots. 
Also adopted was Directive 96/23 on supervisory measures for implementing this tougher policy. 
Subject: The EU as an association of free and independent States 
If I understand the interpreting correctly it seems that Mr Sjöstedt himself believes that national constitutions are more important than Community law. 
Question No-15 by Mr Medina Ortega (H-0237/97) 
It will also give us a future in the two very important industries that we can not ignore and ensure Europe's future prosperity. 
Also, some serious targets must now finally be set for the car industry. 
We have done considerable research before coming to the conclusions before us tonight. 
STOA, to produce for us a paper which indicated low sulphur fuels are essential. 
Secondly, in any case, they have to refurbish and invest in their refineries continuously. 
The rapporteur is asking for a threshold of 50 to 30 ppm, which would also involve excessive cost without appreciable benefit. 
The fiscal advantages for clean vehicles could then be introduced some two years before the new standards take effect. 
It emerged from the hearing that the sulphur content, in particular, of both petrol and diesel could be much lower. 
A further nine percent can be eliminated over the next eight years, at a reasonable cost. 
Madam President, there are only two ways to improve air quality. 
But two groups are in confrontation. 
We look forward to what the Commission has to say but I would sound a note of warning. 
The car concept has got off to a good start. 
What was the actual driving force behind this programme? 
We will change this programme so that the driving force behind it is the future and innovation. 
In the proposal for a directive, summer begins on 1 April and ends on 30 September. 
The report contains a number of proposals for tax concessions which many other speakers have mentioned in this evening's debate. 
For that reason the Commission believes that it is still too early to fix limit values for fuel quality for the year 2005. 
These are Amendments Nos 22, 23, 37 and 38. 
The Commission has proposed fuel specifications for the year 2000. 
Madam President, there has clearly been a misunderstanding. 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 
And the national judges frequently have difficulty in understanding and applying the concept of indirect discrimination. 
The directive codifies the case law of the Court of Justice and ensures that it will be consistently applied. 
British women too are entitled to the same treatment as all the other citizens of Europe. 
She has already spoken on the subject, and other colleagues will be doing so as well. 
What is being asked of small employers here is very difficult. 
All of us as MEPs are small employers too. 
in order to bring immediate results it will also be necessary to have constant monitoring of the implementation of the directive. 
The problems caused by the absence of transparency are particularly severe. 
As a final point I emphasize that the existing positive actions must be kept in place. 
Shared responsibilities, both at work and in the family mean a better quality of life for both men and women. 
That was also mentioned by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten and Mrs Glase. 
The Minutes of the part-session of Thursday 29 May 1997 have been distributed. 
Why do I raise the matter? 
I give the floor to Mrs Green. 
Thursday does not seem like a good idea. 
Mr President, my report also concerns agriculture, bee-keeping to be precise. 
In other words, not your report. 
Petitions 1996-1997 
Citizens take their right to petition seriously. 
Sadly my report is not all plaudits. 
I wonder whether they are in the debate this evening. 
In that case, the matter turns out to be a national problem after all. 
It is possible when the matter is raised with the Committee on Petitions. 
So it is essential that we activate this right fully. 
He won a case against the Greek railways several years ago and he is owed several thousand pounds by them. 
Thank you very much, Commissioner. 
We have shown that the future of the audio-visual industry is a debate which crosses all political and national boundaries. 
We must be able to create and see our own stories, be it Inspector Morse or Derrick. 
We can not accept that situation. The first reading provided a remedy. 
As far as I know, Madam President, lies are not accepted in any parliament. 
Copyright and the EU's principle of free competition should be taken into account in the televising of sports as of other events. 
Which will be seen and which not? 
Thanks to all this it will now be more difficult for public and private broadcasters to ignore the rules contained in the directive. 
For European citizens, it ensures that the public interest is taken into consideration, which is so important to their daily lives. 
Thank you very much, Commissioner. 
Our fellow citizens' days and nights are becoming increasingly noisy. 
Two months ago I had to have an operation for a serious complaint. 
No doubt much of what our citizens experience as noise does not fall within the competence of the Union. 
And this is one of the oldest pieces of environmental legislation that we have in Europe. 
I am thinking here of airport zones, high-speed trains and major motorways. 
This refusal can be interpreted as indirect encouragement of the impunity and immunity of the terrorists of yesterday, today and tomorrow. 
Resignation of a Vice-President 
The next item is the order of business. 
I would remind you that Mr Cornelissen's report has been added to the agenda for Tuesday. 
I hope she will take note of this, because it is an important point. 
(The President cut off the speaker) 
The next item is the joint debate on the following statement and oral question: 
For this reason, the initiative of the Commission is worthy of our congratulations. 
My group, the Liberal group, is presently focusing its attention on non-European Union nationals. 
They are no longer allowed to practise their previous activities as doctors, teachers, members of parliament. 
Madam President, I would also like to thank Mrs Bonino wholeheartedly for her work on behalf of the women in Kabul. 
Barbaric violence can only be fought when democracy is supported. 
The debate is closed. 
There have only been a few isolated amendments opposed to this approach and these were subsequently rejected. 
Madam President, my group supports the rapporteur's position. 
I fully support the need for contacts with third countries. 
Secondly, we should not allow this to be postponed indefinitely, and we should not introduce provisions restricted to physical persons. 
But that is not the language used in everyday encounters with the bemused populations of the EU countries. 
Two approaches are becoming clear, one of which is a pragmatic approach. 
Have negotiations really begun? 
Today we have two directives before us, including this one on capital income. 
Finally, it is my belief that it is not for us to deal with rate levels. 
I believe this is a job for the final compromise round of Europe's finance ministers. 
Where coordinating tax policy is concerned, the main objective is to limit manoeuvring and distortions on the capital markets. 
My country is one of them. 
Yet another amendment is aimed at simplification, taking references to the tank to include its accessories as a matter of course. 
The sitting was suspended at 11.25 a.m. until voting time at 11.30 a.m.. 
Your predecessor said earlier – we only finished the debate barely twenty minutes ago – that this report would be voted on tomorrow. 
Now we come to the references to Macao. 
In the motion for a resolution, we have: 
The way China develops is vital for the way our own societies develop. 
It will influence not only our economies but also, and above all, prospects for democracy world-wide. 
Directive 96/96/EC established the principle that commercial road vehicles must undergo an annual roadworthiness test at an approved testing centre. 
However, I seriously doubt that the introduction of free market principles, which the report so enthusiastically recommends, is the right solution. 
It would not be a good thing to blindly apply competition rules and risk endangering the efficiency of Community and national interventions. 
In addition, the Commission has exclusive competence in matters of state aid. 
In its communication, the Commission has presented some proposals for greater consistency between regional policy and competition policy in the EU. 
This solution must not become entrenched in a national-level mentality. 
The Commission has already established a number of actions to help them. 
It concentrates on combating unemployment and ensuring that everyone has a job. 
No one is left out; there are clear references to women, for example. 
It is heartening that the European Union recognises the problems and is willing to focus on them. 
Let us make it clear that the collection of clothing for people in third countries who need it can continue. 
We must accept that. 
The problem is that in many EU Member States it has become the easy option with dire consequences for the environment. 
I reserve my right to come back on this when it goes back to committee. 
On the question of whether to exempt energy-intensive industries, in our view the Commission's proposal has advantages and disadvantages. 
The international exemption for aircraft kerosene must be abolished as quickly as possible. 
The indexing of minimum rates introduced by Mr Cox is a good way of making the regulation simple and reliable. 
As a result, the legislation is complex, hard to understand and difficult to apply. 
Standards have been raised, and the question of the radio ham has also been given attention. 
If I have a criticism of the Legal Affairs Committee's opinion, it is that it is too one-sided. 
I salute him for all he has done in this area. 
A further point was how private copying should be regulated in the digital environment. 
Broad sections of the population having access to these new forms of knowledge and learning is something we should very much welcome. 
It is a directive which safeguards the interests of rightholders and protects intellectual property. 
That is why the Socialist Group will be supporting this position. 
The first concerns the limitations on copyright, in which context we have logically proposed providing compensation. 
In the first place, there are the creators. 
There are no clearly defined rules governing the sharing of responsibility. 
Cultural differences do exist, and so I do not understand why there should not be mandatory provision for exemptions. 
Some time ago we debated about giving the rights to artists who sell their artwork. 
Since that legislation came into being, there has been no noticeable difference. 
There is a proper balanced way to achieve the rights that everybody here wants to see. 
What is most needed in this, as well as in other areas, is a serious in depth analysis of the problems. 
This is a right which does not incur financial consequences. 
Mr President, many thanks to Mr Barzanti. 
We are told we must balance interests but, quite frankly, all interests are not equal. 
Blank screens will not enrich our society. 
Too many continue to scrape together a living in a kind of La Bohéme garret. 
Some would argue that there should be fair use without fair compensation. 
Allow the creators and others in the United Kingdom to have a fair debate about whether we should have a blank tape levy. 
Copyright holders are given an absolute right to protection, with the banning of copying for private use for example. 
Let us be honest. 
It may seem that the common agricultural policy or the trans-European transport network are higher priorities, but they are not. 
If these products are in short supply or of inferior quality, that will sound the death-knell for Europe. 
There are some very clear examples of this in the recitals. 
The ball is now in the Commission's court. 
At one time, almost all Europe's major hits came into being with the help of a producer who believed in them. 
We feel that the Internet provides an effective way of avoiding that stranglehold. 
The information society is in fact evolving in a global context. 
I am well aware that this was also the aim of Parliament's work. 
We can not, however, accept the concept of 'economic significance' for the rightholder. 
Your amendments uphold two important principles: the right of rightholders to fair remuneration and the fine distinction concerning private digital copies. 
The first principle protects a need for equity; it is a measured step forwards in the quest for legal certainty in this sector. 
That is a formula which allows broader harmonisation and respects the traditions and practices of the Member States. 
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon. 
C4-0497/98-98/0126 (CNS). 
The very structure of the text of the COM in wine shows us that wine is an agricultural product rather than an industrial product. 
Mr President, I should like to start by offering my sincere thanks to Mr Martin. 
The proposal, Commissioner Fischler, was also not nearly as good as this one. 
Circumstances have changed in some respects, while in others they have remained the same. 
That is why we support the Agriculture Committee's call for a framework regulation. 
Each area has its own way of making wine. 
We will only counter overproduction by introducing comprehensive new quality criteria. 
We support Mr Martin's report and we say one thing: quality not quantity! 
Contrary to the Commission proposals, we must preserve the current procedure known as the Article 43 procedure. 
That is the information I have on this type of activity. 
You have the floor, Mr Van Miert. 
Mr President, there has been considerable progress made with regard to the internal market for medicinal products. 
It will be borne by the consumers and will constitute an additional element of the price of electricity used. 
I should just like to confirm that the Commissioner and the French Minister for Europe are both agreed on that point. 
I was obviously anxious to hear the speech in full, 
In any case, I congratulate Mrs Thors on her French; I certainly can not speak in Swedish or Finnish. 
Once again, it is a question of habit. 
This also applies to charges on cross-border transfers. 
We have done so: on 5 February we published an extremely detailed press release dealing with the questions you have raised. 
I will bear in mind however, as these debates are of especial interest to me, that Spain has been particularly affected. 
Question No-46 by Christine Oddy (H-0002/99) 
I am pleased to confirm that the Commission has received the report to which the honourable Member refers. 
Mr Hatzidakis now has the floor for one minute, and his will be the last question to Mr van den Broek today. 
As regards the negotiations, you know the Commission's position. 
Question No-59 by Alex Smith (H-0045/99) 
I must confess I am totally surprised that the Commission was not aware of this report, given its sensitivity at this particular time. 
So I do not have a supplementary question, I just want to register my protest. 
My question is related to Mr Smith's question. 
It has always failed to deal with the real issue, namely the closing-down of Sellafield. 
I have sat here patiently and I find it quite extraordinary that you are not calling me. 
Instead of that, you called Mr Fitzsimons as a supplementary to Mr Smith. 
I have the impression that the honourable Member believes the public invitation to tender in connection with the tunnel has already started. 
The sitting was suspended at 7.15 p.m and resumed at 9 p.m. 
Common organisation of the market in wine (continuation) 
I also think that the Commission's proposals are better able to provide this guarantee of dynamic equilibrium. 
This also means that in several areas the report does not follow the liberal proposals made by the Commission. 
Everyone can see that the draft CAP reforms tend to become embedded in the rut defined by the Commission's too liberal tendencies. 
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is very attentive to the demands of the experts and of society. 
This is why we will be approving the report which has been presented to us. 
I hope that the debate on wine-growing will benefit the wine producer, the product and the consumer alike. 
More must be done to promote the product on the international markets. 
We are always talking about quality; well, I believe that quality also means giving priority to products wholly derived from the vine. 
Unfortunately, with respect, it shows an enormous ignorance of what actually happens to wine in those countries that it is shipped to. 
Ladies and gentlemen from both North and South, we must vote in favour of this report. 
Commissioner Brittan should know this. 
The appropriate forum for the settlement of this dispute is the World Trade Organisation. 
I therefore urge the German presidency to take whatever initiative is necessary in the Bonn EU/US summit in June. 
It is as if someone were to steal my wallet and I were then expected to sit down and negotiate with him. 
So, let us take the gloves off. 
We shall not only condemn them. 
It affects people and it reaches them at different times and on different issues. 
I can now give the floor to one speaker in favour and one against. 
A pirate electronic version is available but not in French. 
In addition to the Structural Funds and the common agricultural policy, the financing of the Community needs to undergo radical reform. 
President Santer rightly pointed out that financial reform is one of the main pillars of Agenda 2000. 
You can see that just by looking at the current discussions in the Council. 
Work that one out if you can! 
At the same time that one truly European own resource is waning rapidly in its importance. 
Yet, the good old traditional own resources are the cause of major headaches for control and concern about fraud. 
We have a system of own resources that is extremely complex and lacking in transparency. 
It makes life very difficult for Members, Commissioners and the press. 
At any rate, there is still quite a lot of circumvention and evasion in this area by the Member States. 
Mr President, I should also like to compliment Mrs Haug on her report. 
These are very fundamental points for the future. 
It is a question of appropriateness and of review. 
What policies and at what level? 
Only one thing can protect us from this unfortunate fate and that is the rule of unanimity. 
I should like to welcome Mrs Cresson and ask her to reply to Mr Valverde's question. 
Thank you very much. 
The premises you visited do not belong to the European Commission and the staff you met are not employed by the European Commission. 
I am unaware of the reasons behind this situation you describe though I can make an educated guess at them. 
Could you please explain it more clearly? 
What I have been hearing about the representative in Nicaragua is indicative that the project had not been properly closed down. 
I would like to make that crystal-clear. 
I am referring to the Rio Coco project. 
Mr Martin, please reply without engaging in a dialogue, as the Rules do not provide for one. 
Originally, a proposal was promised for the beginning of last year. 
I am grateful to the honourable Member for his question. 
I just hope that I will be invited to the opening ceremony because we worked damned hard to get it. 
Thank you, Mr Kinnock. 
Question No-44 by Bernie Malone (H-0209/99) 
European exports rose during that period but the situation has now been rectified. 
The only product of any significance is canned tomatoes, but even they account for no more than 7 -% of the market. 
For my part, I feel that the negotiations were balanced and that they open the way for achieving a sustainable market. 
You know yourself that the agreement with South Africa was held up because of the fisheries question, too. 
You have to take more into account the whole question of, not just giving aid, but fair trade. 
The overall amount was 6500 tonnes of canned tomatoes. 
We shall be discussing the new trends in consumption and trafficking and the prospects for the future. 
Many lives are wasted every year because of the depredations of the people-smugglers. 
We know for certain that those who try to reach the coast of Europe by sea from Morocco often meet a grim fate. 
In 1996, the EDU's mandate was extended to include the smuggling of human beings. 
We know that there are boats plying between Morocco and Spain and Gibraltar, and that the different authorities concerned are cooperating fully. 
What do you think are the target routes here? 
Question No-49 will therefore receive a written answer. 
We are closely monitoring the matter and should know whether the regime has been modified within the next few weeks. 
Secondly, the origin rules applicable to imports to third countries from the Community are still based on individual Member States. 
Detailed statistics on EU trade with Cuba are not available. 
I understand from sources in the Scottish industry that there is a major company involved in Norway at the moment. 
As I have said, 84 exporters have had the undertakings replaced by duties instead. 
This has led to the adoption of a common position on Burma and the withdrawal of GSP benefits. 
In this case we are talking about the market for processed meat products. 
I had therefore been hoping for a common sense reply, Commissioner, not a technical one. 
The directive is more modest. 
How could millions of customers be reimbursed if the charge had already been included in their electricity bills? 
Questions Nos 60 to 111 will therefore receive written answers. 
That concludes Question Time. 
For electoral reasons and in order to appeal to the masses, the subject has been brought up again. 
It aims at the heart of the matter, as Agenda 2000 negotiations have reached a critical stage. 
The issue is the financing of EU enlargement. 
We are now fighting over who is going to pay for it. 
I speak on behalf of the British Labour Members on that major area of dissent. 
At the moment, Germany has a massive surplus in its balance of trade with the rest of the Union, something like 25 billion. 
Firstly, does the total amount of Community budget receipts cover the current requirement of the European Union? 
How much further do you want it to fall? 
Let us just reflect on the fact that, without a common agricultural policy, there would be no European Union today. 
We therefore had to meet these two fundamental objectives and I sincerely believe that we are close to achieving this. 
Some merely refer to purely linguistic and formal aspects. 
We transport politicians always try to be precise, without letting things get out of hand. 
During the conciliation procedure the Commission, indeed you, Commissioner, declared that a proposal on seaports would be on the table immediately. 
There are two other points I would like to address. 
Then there is the famous project No-8 of the 14 very important projects endorsed by the Essen summit. 
We have worked on the networks too long for this to happen. 
That is what I want to talk about today. 
I admit that, Commissioner, and also thank the Commission for improving its proposal compared to the original text. 
We need a brief report summarising the experience gained and a clear review. 
A very clear and accurate analysis of both Mediterranean and non-Mediterranean ports is required. 
That makes sense because the viability of infrastructure investments obviously depends on competitive revenue-raising services and competitive services clearly need quality infrastructure. 
Amendment No-6 makes more radical changes to the guideline maps, adding new links and creating new categories of ports. 
All I would regret was his prolonged absence from this House. 
This, however, is not the proposal before the House. 
That he always gets, whether he likes it or not. 
Thank you, Mr Kinnock. 
There is much talk of privatisation and liberalisation. 
But privatisation does not even come into question in this context, it is not being proposed. 
It is up to the railway undertakings to decide whether to do so more in the form of cooperation or of competition. 
I believe the Commission has done a very good job in many cases. 
Each country should continue to be able to regulate this as it wishes in its area of jurisdiction. 
Personally, I should like to see a number of other requirements deleted. 
Consequently, the proposals could, in practice, produce the opposite effect to that intended and become an obstacle to increased competition. 
Many countries and regions are worried, and perhaps with reason. 
But the opportunity for the renaissance of the railways is at hand, and that is what we should strive for. 
Compared with my own objectives, I do not think the demands made by either of them are tough enough. 
Mr President, here too I must congratulate the two rapporteurs. 
But there are a few facts that we must face. 
I do not agree with him at all. 
How can we license individual operators if we do not make that separation? 
Why do we say that? 
Firstly, the amendment of the concept of authorised applicants which allows any natural or legal person to request infrastructure capacity. 
We all know that the market share of the railways has declined in recent years. 
My group welcomes that opportunity and supports the Commission and our rapporteurs in their efforts to secure a future for Europe's railways. 
Both the reports before us today represent further necessary steps along the same road. 
If rail is to have real vitality, then rail is going to have to change. 
It results in a less clear definition and is, in our view, an unnecessary change. 
I have great sympathy with the view that Community legislation should not be over-prescriptive. 
There are a number of key points that I would like to address before concluding. 
It will encourage them to place greater reliance on this mode of transport. 
They have to make a stronger commitment to rail. 
I conclude by thanking both rapporteurs, 
I hope that the whole House will endorse their constructive approach. 
So there is no question of closing down, there is a question of the practical discretion of the committee. 
We will meet that commitment. 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 
Perhaps it is especially important, however, to define in precise terms the responsibility that city will have to assume. 
