Maureen, 
Andre is going to look over the list of curves needed for the global assets (August Board meeting) one more time before I forward it to you. 
He will make sure that we do not request FX and inflation (CPI,PPI, etc.) curves when only one of the curves will actually be used in the valuation process and to determine which inflation index is needed. 
Typically, we receive both FX and inflation from you, but both curves may not always be used. 
I hope that we can give you some time savings by eliminating any nonessential requests. 
For now, this is the list of countries for which we will probably need the FX and/or inflation curves. 
I will send the specifics per Andre later today. 
India 
Philippines 
Bolivia 
Jamaica 
Guatemala 
Venezuela 
Columbia 
Puerto Rico CPI only (I need historical inflation data, as well) 
Panama 
Brazil we have current data already 
China we have current data already 
Euro inflation only 
I am not certain about the needs for the London Underwriting/IV group but will request the information from them if you have not done so already. 
Thanks! 
Cindy 
David and Cindy, 
Please send us the list of the curves that you will need to revalue our international assets for the August Board meeting. 
Thanks, 
Maureen 
Philip, 
I have to decline the invitation with regrets. 
I have too many commitments right now. 
Vince Kaminski 
Dear Vince 
Just a quick message to follow up on the email that I sent you recently inviting you to speak at our forthcoming congress, Risk 2001 Australia, which is taking place in Sydney on 20 & 21 August 2001. 
Have you had an opportunity to consider the invitation yet? 
We are aiming to have the programme printed next week, so I would really need to know as soon as possible if you would be available to speak at this year's congress. 
I am working from our Hong Kong office for this week only (Tel: +852 2545 2710), and I can be contacted by phone there or by email. 
Kind regards. 
Philip 
Philip Annesley Conference Producer Risk Waters Group +44 20 7484 9866 +44 20 7484 9800 www.risk-conferences.com/risk2001aus 
Beth has made our reservations for the Round Table Friday night (5/18) at Sullivan's Steak House for 6:30. 
See you all there - this is ling overdue 
Paula 
Paula, 
Thanks a lot. 
Will you drive on that day? 
Vince 
Beth has made our reservations for the Round Table Friday night (5/18) at Sullivan's Steak House for 6:30. 
See you all there - this is ling overdue 
Paula 
FYI 
Vince 
Anne, Mike will call you regarding Sarah. 
Vince, 
As I mentioned in my voice mail, Mike Roberts going to hire Sara Woody, a recent MBA grad from Rice, into his group. 
However, when we were talking about this position, Mike compared Sara to Elena. 
Elena's title is admin coordinator, and I know that Sara should not have this title, and honestly do not think that Elena should also. 
Admin coordinator's do primarily administrative work. 
I suggest that you compare Elena and Sarah's duties/ level to other Sr. Spec. in your group such as Kenneth Parkhill and Sevil to determine if they are equivalent, or if their scope of responsibilities and experience is not as broad. 
If the latter is the case, we could place both Sara and Elena in a specialist job group ( the salary range is 33-66K). 
Please advise. 
Thanks, 
Anne 
Clayton, 
Thanks a lot. 
I appreciate all your help. 
Vince 
Vince- 
Good news. 
Martin's box is working wonderfully- I'll have everything transferred to it and give him the keys by Friday. 
This was (another) nice deal for Enron. 
We save $21,000 in real money this way, the cash refund Sun is giving Enron for our other server, using a box that wasn't being used by anyone. 
I'm happy about this. 
Clayton 
Iris, 
Congratulations. 
Anne, please, include this info in Iris' file 
Vince 
Michael: 
Thanks for putting the paperwork together. 
I would have interest in meeting if you can present unique investment opportunities that I don't have access to now. 
Most of my contact with financial advisors in the past has consisted of them suggesting a mutual fund, telling me to invest in Home Depot, Sun, and Coke, or trying to pass off their banks' biased research reports as something valuable. 
The above services provide no value to me personally. 
If you can present opportunities such as access to private equity or hedge funds, or other ideas with strong growth potential and low correlation to the S@P, I'd listen. 
John 
John - 
We'll get the paperwork together and sent to you for naked options. 
At some point, I'd like to talk about the diversification strategy in more detail -- perhaps over dinner or a quick meeting after the markets close? 
Michael Gapinski Account Vice President Emery Financial Group PaineWebber, Inc. 713-654-0365 800-553-3119 x365 Fax: 713-654-1281 Cell: 281-435-0295 
Michael: 
Appreciate the idea. 
However, with my natural long, I'm not looking to really trade around the position. 
I believe ENE will continue to be range bound, but in case it is not, I don't want to forgo 50% of my option premium. 
I have price targets of where I would like to lighten up exposure to ENE and will use calls to implement the stategy. 
To that regards, I noticed I was not approved to sell naked calls. 
I would like that ability in order to hedge some exposure I have of unexercised vested options. 
Please look into that for me. 
John. 
John - 
I was looking at the recent pullback in ENE and thinking it might be an opportunity to buy back the calls you sold. 
Of course, you would then be in a position to sell calls again if the stock makes a bounce. 
I'm not sure that ENE @ 75 is the place, but maybe @ 73. 
Call me if you're interested. 
Michael Gapinski Account Vice President Emery Financial Group PaineWebber, Inc. 713-654-0365 800-553-3119 x365 Fax: 713-654-1281 Cell: 281-435-0295 
Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions: Please do not transmit orders and/or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account(s) by e-mail. 
Orders and/or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and/or instructions. 
Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality: PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and/or received by its employees. 
Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions: Please do not transmit orders and/or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account(s) by e-mail. 
Orders and/or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and/or instructions. 
Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality: PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and/or received by its employees. 
Notice Regarding Entry of Orders and Instructions: Please do not transmit orders and/or instructions regarding your PaineWebber account(s) by e-mail. 
Orders and/or instructions transmitted by e-mail will not be accepted by PaineWebber and PaineWebber will not be responsible for carrying out such orders and/or instructions. 
Notice Regarding Privacy and Confidentiality: PaineWebber reserves the right to monitor and review the content of all e-mail communications sent and/or received by its employees. 
Who cares?????? 
Please note that effective immediately my email address has changed to Sean.Cooper@ElPaso.com 
He just rescheduled to Wednesday. 
How about dinner on Wednesday after that ? 
Your buddy Beau invited me. 
How about prior to that or after that on Tuesday. 
not really... 
already have plans on thursday . 
are you going to the NYMEX candidate cocktail hour Tuesday? 
oh god is there an agenda. 
Would dinner Thursday work instead. 
not really... 
already have plans on thursday . 
are you going to the NYMEX candidate cocktail hour Tuesday? 
oh god is there an agenda. 
Wednesday doesn't work for me. 
How about Tuesday's at 3:30 Houston time. 
i completely agree. 
I would like to have a meeting once a week for 1-2 hours with all 6 of us just to make sure we are moving forward and to get an update and anything and everything. 
My only concern is that we take the boys away from their overwhelming task. 
What do you guys think. 
John 
OK. 
I will have to move my weekly meeting to Tuesday. 
Monday's starting next week at 4??????????????? 
Wednesday doesn't work for me. 
How about Tuesday's at 3:30 Houston time. 
i completely agree. 
I would like to have a meeting once a week for 1-2 hours with all 6 of us just to make sure we are moving forward and to get an update and anything and everything. 
My only concern is that we take the boys away from their overwhelming task. 
What do you guys think. 
John 
Not yet. 
Did you happen to sign your employment agreement? 
Please respond to request below. 
Thanks. 
John Lavorato has requested the attached report. 
He is concerned about the allocation amongst categories- in particular, Real Time Traders. 
If you would, please review the entire list and let me know if you are in agreement with the presentation by tomorrow evening, if possible. 
I'm at xif you have any questions. 
Thanks! 
I understand all of those comparisons, however, the reality is if we lose Dean (which we will if we don't pay 65k + 10k), we will end up hiring a replacement at 75-80k. 
This is pretty easy math for me. 
I know it seems like a stretch, but the market for hourly traders is very strong right now. 
I would like to get this done ASAP. 
Thanks. 
I am reviewing the request for an employment agreement renewal on Mark Dean Laurent. 
Juan communicated some numbers to me and when reviewing this request would like to ask you to consider the following: 
Current Salary: $47,500 
Job Group: Specialist 
YE PRC Rating: Satisfactory 
Original Proposition: 
Base Salary 65k 
1 Year Agreement 
$5,000 signing 
Revised Proposal: 
Base Salary: 55k 
1 Year agreement 
$5,000 signing 
Business Case: If we offered Dean 55k or 60k it would still constitute a over a $10,000 increase (approximately 25%) and taking into consideration he was rated as satisfactory at the specialist level. 
Also, the top of the salary range for a specialist is 66k. 
It would still give him room to progress in the current job group should he not be promoted. 
Secondly, he will still out price performers that you have in the same job group that are excellent and strong performers respectively eg. Paul Thomas, Jason Choate, Todd DeCook and Peter Makkai. 
Salary Listing in Job Group: 
Maria Valdes superior $62,500 
Paul Thomas excellent $55,008 
Jason Choate excellent $60,008 
Todd DeCook strong $42,008 
Peter Makkai strong $47,500 
Let me know your thoughts....then I will run it by Oxley. 
Are we going to attend? 
Transmission Expansion and Systems in Transition Conference Feb. 5-8, 2002, Miami, Florida 
OVERVIEW 
This conference will examine the business and regulatory challenges to U.S. electric systems in transition in effectively expanding transmission capacity to meet new demands in the larger and more competitive regional markets emerging under FERC 's RTO initiatives. 
The conference will review the parameters of these challenges and possible solutions to them. 
It will examine technology options and new business models for transmission expansion. 
It will analyze emerging proposals for effective transmission planning and pricing, including market-based pricing alternatives to FERC's traditional pricing methods. 
The conference will also discuss what it will take in legislative action and regulatory initiative to achieve an efficient regime for ensuring that the nation has a reliable grid and regional trading system. 
The brochure for the Conference and associated Workshops can be obtained by clicking on the link below:<http://www.euci.com/pdf/trans_expn.pdf> << http://www.euci.com/pdf/trans_expn.pdf >> 
Electricity Market Design Conference March 25-26, 2002, Atlanta, Georgia 
I need to check something in 969's 2000 tax return. 
Who has the 2000 tax return file for 969? 
Essie 
Sonya City 
07/30/2001 05:17 PM 
<Embedded Picture (Device Independent Bitmap)> 
I think that this is for you since I don't know any of these people. 
WHO: Enron 
WHAT: Happy Hour for John Suarez 
WHEN: Today at 5pm 
WHERE: The Front Porch 217 Gray St. (713) 571-9571 
WHY: Today is John's last day at EBS. 
This is NOT an Enron-sponsored event. 
How do you feel about taking on another company? 
Essie and Leon have proposed xferring Co. 1691 to your world (see below). 
Do you concur? 
Please let me know Monday morning. 
Regards, 
Vicsandra 
If you have not already made these decisions, Essie's guidance should be helpful. 
Patty Lee Corporate Tax x35172 EB1774 
Please see my comments in red below. 
Essie 
Essie, 
Can you recommend where these companies each fit within the new organization? 
If possible, can you also give an indication of the rank - 1 through 5? 
Thanks, 
Patty 
I have a few entities that may need to change groups or be assigned to a group. 
18T - EI Indonesia Operations LLC 
This entity is not in TIS, SAP, nor Hyperion. 
The 2000 tax return has no income, assets, or liabilities. 
There is a corporate data sheet for this company, but this entity seems to have been inactive since it's creation. 
86M - Enron Net Works LLC 
Despite the name, this entity appears to be a MTM company. 
Per September financials, this company has about $3M of MTM and about $8K of expenses, nothing else. 
The next 5 companies were my responsibility while in EBS, and did not get assigned during the reorg. 
80Y - Enron Broadband Acquisition, Inc. 
This entity was created in 2000 for the acquistion of WarpSpeed Communications (now Enron WarpSpeed Services, Inc. 83N), and then dissolved upon completion of merger. 
Company is around with a small amount of assets and liabilities, but no I/S items. 
83N is my responsibility. 
I think this entity should stay with 83N. 
So I suggest it be assigned to Leon. 
It should be 4 - easy. 
1579 - EBS Network Co. Division of 17H. 
This one should possibly be assigned to Networks & Services group. 
Not currently on our list of companies. 
I think this could go to either Holding/Administrative Companies (Same as 17H) or Network & Services (Leon). 
4 - easy. 
1691 - EPI-EBS Europe 
Set up last month to centralize merchant asset activities. 
Broke out the activities of 1179. 
A similar entity (1179) was assigned to Commodity and Trade (Todd Richards and Mary Fischer) so this one should be assigned to them as well. 
4 - easy. 
1307 - EBIC-Apache, LLC 
Rolls up to Cherokee Finance VOF, a CFC. 
Cherokee Finance VOF is assigned to North America (Glen Walloch and Kevin Walker). 
Maybe this one should also go to them as the only tax which may have to be provided would be foreign tax. 
4 - easy. 
1689 - EPI-EBS Ventures, LLC 
Set up last month to centralize merchant asset activities. 
Broke out the activities of 1307. 
Same as 1307. 
It should be assigned to North America (Glen Walloch and Kevin Walker). 
4 - easy. 
Let me know if you have any questions. 
Leon Branom Senior Tax Analyst Networks and Services (713) 345-8702 office leon.branom@enron.com 
No problem about moving Company 1691 over 
I see that it is a 4, so that will be no problem. 
How do you feel about taking on another company? 
Essie and Leon have proposed xferring Co. 1691 to your world (see below). 
Do you concur? 
Please let me know Monday morning. 
Regards, 
Vicsandra 
If you have not already made these decisions, Essie's guidance should be helpful. 
Patty Lee Corporate Tax x35172 EB1774 
Please see my comments in red below. 
Essie 
Essie, 
Can you recommend where these companies each fit within the new organization? 
If possible, can you also give an indication of the rank - 1 through 5? 
Thanks, 
Patty 
Virginia, 
Hello. 
I was originally inquiring about purchasing a Cross or Signac impressionist lithograph. 
I found them and purchased both from a gallery in London, William Weston. 
They should be delivered this week. 
They are beautiful and will add a lot to our collection. 
By the way the Lichtenstein is up and hanging in our formal living room and it is magnificent. 
I have also purchased an Appel in the last month. 
I am interested in several artists. 
Actually, a lot. 
I will be looking for one or more of the following. 
My concept is that overtime I would like to own one of all the following artists and they are all depending when I find something that we really like. 
I listed all of our (sometimes mine vs. my wife's favorites and priorities). 
They are kind of in rank order but as I stated if I find the piece that I like we will purchase it. 
I want signed and numbered. 
I realize that some were not signed by the artist but it is an important fact in my buying decision. 
I also realize that some may not have done any works on paper or they are outrageously expensive. 
For example, I would like to know if Rothko or Kline did any work on paper. 
At least that is what I am thinking now. 
Bonnard (colorful only) 
Lautrec 
Suerat (any works on paper? - 
I don't know that he did any) 
Other impressionist or post impressionist lithos 
Braque 
Moore 
Arp 
Rouault 
Modrian 
Rothko 
Kline 
Motherwell 
By the way, I am interested in re-looking at a Picasso (although we have 2) that your gallery had a couple of years ago. 
It was a cubist piece from the 1920s and I believe you called the technique a "push wa" (pronunciation Vs an attempt at the proper spelling). 
It was for sale in a couple of galleries in SF and was about $20,000. 
Is there 1 available? 
Also I am still thinking about the Matisse we discussed before but as you can see, I have a lot of other artists I am interested in and it may remain on the back burner because we already have one. 
Thanks, 
mike 
Huskers drool over Sooners. 
Ken Rice@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 
01/19/2001 09:14 AM 
Huskers rule, Sooners drool. 
Mike McConnell@ECT 
01/19/01 07:55 AM 
Thanks for the note. 
Sooners rule. 
We'll find time when things settle down. 
m 
Ken Rice@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 
01/19/2001 07:24 AM 
Mike 
I see that we are scheduled to have lunch today. 
I may have to postpone again, I'll let you know later this morning. 
I am out all weekend and we have to have the final comments on the Analyst Presentation in by sunday night so I may be working over lunch. 
Actually, I think we are in pretty good shape so I will probably be doing lunch but just don't be too mad if I have to cancel. 
Ken 
PS Your brother told me he went to 3 bowl games (when I found out that two of them were the galleryfurniture.com bowl and that one in Shreveport (I can't remember the name of it)) I realized he is a very, very sick college football fan. 
Jeff, here is the intial draft. 
Please leave as a word document and make any changes and additions that you think necessary. 
I haven't even changed the wording after I first put it down. 
Mike 
Mark, I thought you would enjoy the comment about you. 
m 
Ken Rice@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 
01/19/2001 07:24 AM 
Mike 
I see that we are scheduled to have lunch today. 
I may have to postpone again, I'll let you know later this morning. 
I am out all weekend and we have to have the final comments on the Analyst Presentation in by sunday night so I may be working over lunch. 
Actually, I think we are in pretty good shape so I will probably be doing lunch but just don't be too mad if I have to cancel. 
Ken 
PS Your brother told me he went to 3 bowl games (when I found out that two of them were the galleryfurniture.com bowl and that one in Shreveport (I can't remember the name of it)) I realized he is a very, very sick college football fan. 
I will put this on our calendars. 
Too bad you won't make the Compaq thing, but maybe next year. 
San Antonio, wow what a let down from the other cities. 
That will be a nice time of year though. 
I can recommend some good restaurants since I took Ric there last year for his birthday. 
We stayed at the Menger and had a great time. 
Kay Mann@ENRON 
09/20/2000 04:18 PM 
This Friday - Michael goes for a visit at St. Francis, which may be his new school (so far, so good). 
I'll be in around1000 
Most Fridays I'm going to TRY to pick Michael up since I'm away so much, which means leaving by 445 or so. 
October 4, ENA orientation in the am. 
October 19/20, Neil is out of town, so I have to pick Michael up from school (leave at 430) 
October 26/27, hope to be vacation time. 
Neil has a meeting in San Antonio (usually it is in Miami, San Francisco, Phoenix - not so great this year). 
It is the officer's meeting for Enterprise, and spouses are invited. 
This means we won't be in town for the Compaq thing. 
Figures, of course. 
Thanks for asking. 
I'm watching for some good vacation days, also... 
fyi/review/comment 
I have a couple of questions so I can wrap up the LOI: 
We refer to licensed Fuel Cell Energy equipment. 
Do we intend to reference a particular manufacturer, or should this be more generic? 
Do we want to attach a draft of the Development Agreement, and condition the final deal on agreeing to terms substantially the same as what's in the draft? 
I have a concern that the Enron optionality bug could bite us on the backside with that one. 
Do we expect to have ONE EPC contract, or several? 
I'm looking for the confidentiality agreement, which may be in Bart's files (haven't checked closely yet). 
If anyone has it handy, it could speed things up for me. 
Thanks, 
Kay 
Forget the ONE or more contract questions. 
I see we expect to have separate contracts for each project. 
I have a couple of questions so I can wrap up the LOI: 
We refer to licensed Fuel Cell Energy equipment. 
Do we intend to reference a particular manufacturer, or should this be more generic? 
Do we want to attach a draft of the Development Agreement, and condition the final deal on agreeing to terms substantially the same as what's in the draft? 
I have a concern that the Enron optionality bug could bite us on the backside with that one. 
Do we expect to have ONE EPC contract, or several? 
I'm looking for the confidentiality agreement, which may be in Bart's files (haven't checked closely yet). 
If anyone has it handy, it could speed things up for me. 
Thanks, 
Kay 
On the issue of the contracts, the draft says that the $170m is paid when the EPC contract is signed. 
Are we expecting that the portion attributable to each project will be paid as the individual EPC contracts are signed? 
Thanks, 
Kay 
1. The pricing that we have given CRRA is specific to FuelCell Energy and would not be meaningful without listing the manufacturer (i.e., ONSI would be a lot more money). 
Hence, I think that we have to reference the manufacturer. 
2. The attachment of the Development Agreement is a Jeff question. 
In order to mark any 2000 income, we will need to get CRRA to execute the Development Agreement in 2000. 
In my opinion, we should show CRRA a copy of the LOI with the assumption that the Development Agreement is attached. 
I would actually send them the draft Development Agreement a couple days after the LOI. 
Based on how CRRA reacts, I would make an ultimate determination if the agreement needs to be attached to the LOI. 
3. I expect at least one EPC contract per project. 
We don't want to condition the acceptance of one project on the performance of another project. 
Performance tests will either be performed on a project basis or a unit by unit basis in a given project. 
Remarkably clear explanation. 
Sent by: Ben Jacoby@ECT 
FYI, see below. 
Mom's birthday is tommorow. 
What are we going to get her? 
Chris 
That is some good stuff. 
I hear you are coming our way soon. 
Look forward to drinking a few beers. 
Chris 
Michael McDermott <Michael.McDermott@spectrongroup.com> on 06/01/2000 06:00:56 AM 
Yo Mama`s so fat .... 
Your mama is so fat: When she hauls ass she has to make two trips. 
When she dances she makes the band skip. 
When she was diagnosed with the flesh eating disease the doctor gave her 13 years to live. 
She puts mayonnaise on aspirin. (<- clearly the winner) 
Her cereal bowl came with a lifeguard. 
When she goes to the zoo the elephants throw her peanuts. 
Her high school graduation picture was an aerial photograph. 
Her driver`s license says "Picture continued on other side." 
She has to iron her pants on the driveway. 
The back of her neck looks like a pack of hot dogs. 
Yo mama`s so fat, all the restaurants in town have signs that say: "Maximum Occupancy: 240 Patrons OR Yo Mama" Yo mama`s so fat, when she ran away, they had to use all four sides of the milk carton. 
Yo mama`s so fat, instead of Levis 501 jeans, she wears Levi`s 1002`s. 
Yo mama`s so fat, when she gets in an elevator, it HAS to go down. 
Yo mama`s so fat, she was born with a silver shovel in her mouth. 
Yo mama`s so fat, she`s got smaller fat women orbiting around her. 
Yo mama`s so fat, she could sell shade. 
You will have to wait and see :-) 
Done! 
Expect a call from Paul tonight. 
Chris 
What are some good interview questions? 
Poll your co-workers. 
cd 
I told Paul that you called him yesterday so abruptly because you didn't want to waste his time while you got tests done for arthritis. 
I told him I told you to call him back and at least hear what he has to say. 
He said they are looking for people and based on what I told him an interview was a formality. 
Chris 
Is that Microwave that you gave Dan really expensive? 
All the guys at work are saying I shouldn't bother having it fixed I should just buy a new one. 
Chris 
Jai Hawker 974-6721 
I won't forget about the $. 
Do I need to cross reference the deals in my model to the deals in the system or did you already do that? 
Chris 
Kathy, 
Don't take that deal out until I look at it. 
I think it is mine but I forgot to write it in the blue FX book (I only wrote it in my red book). 
Thanx, 
Chris 
Just a reminder to send me a currency report. 
Thanx, 
Chris 
Paul called me today. 
He will be in Calgary in a couple of weeks and will interview you then. 
Chris 
You should reply ASAP. 
Don't make Peters and Co. wait. 
Chris 
I didn't get a chance to talk to Paul today. 
Give him a call tommorow. 
Chris 
Will you please run a June NX3/NX1 for our book. 
Paul 
How about meeting at 11:30 or 12? 
I am in the office so give me a call. 
CD 3-1663 
The deed is done. 
Chris 
Find attached resume and cover letter. 
Hopefully he didn't spel anyting incorrectly. 
Dan is really smart and a hard worker. 
I think he would be a good fit. 
Give me a call Tuesday afternoon to discuss (gone to Kelowna golfing for the weekend). 
Cheers, 
Chris 
I haven't had a chance to send it yet. 
Paul is out of the office today so I haven't had a chance to talk to him. 
I'll send it as soon as you resond wether I should or not. 
Chris 
Are you guys still looking for an analyst? 
Should I send the resume to Dawn or you directly? 
Chris Enron Canada Corp. Suite 1100, 70 York Street Toronto, Ontario M5J 1S9 416-865-3700 
Paul DeVries - Director 416-865-3703 
Jan Wilson - Manager 416-865-3704 
Attached is a forecast for the rest of the summer for the X (NWP and PGT). 
We should try to have a conference call with the west desk to discuss as soon as we can. 
Chris 
See you there! 
CD 
Sushi tonight? 
Ryan Watt says high. 
Chris 
I will be able to attend. 
Chris 
Mike Jordan 
26/09/2000 14:14 
Fernley / Sally 
Off and on ( with Jackie Gentle's help ) I have pulled together a one page communication note on our fundamental operating standards ( itself a one page summary ). 
We are in the final stages of this process - where we draft a cover letter for John which will introduce this for inclusion within Globalflash ( the Enron Europe newsletter ) 
Have you any thoughts on draft or cover note ? 
Mike 
Late Jan sounds great. 
Meagan does have a couple of big things on the weekend in January -- National Charity League Senior Presentation (big dance that she and I are committed to help with), the Bearkadette Ball and a winter party for Cotillion. 
I believe that these are three weekends in a row, January 6, 13 and 20th. 
So the last weekend in January would work well (and I will need a rest from formal affairs!). 
Does that work for you? 
And do you want to do it on a Saturday or Sunday? 
Saturday probably works better for me, just so that I am back in Houston and doing laundry by Sunday afternoon!! 
Hi... 
Talked to the little mother-to-be. 
She said a shower would be grand. 
She has some big presentation mid-January. 
How does late January sound to you. 
Should we set a date now? 
Am I turning into Mother? 
Cindy 
I think that it is a great idea to get some press regarding our fundamental operating standards, but I wonder about the most appropriate timing, enough of a global message and the means of delivery. 
On the means of delivery, I am not sure from your note whether or not I fully understand the intent. 
Is there an article to be included in an Enron publication and in addition a letter to be sent under John's name (if so, to whom will the letter be sent)? 
Or is the letter from John an introduction to be included as a lead in to the article? 
With regard to a global message, I think that one of the key points around fundamental operating standards are that they are intended to be global in nature, applied to every commodity and every location where we engage in trading activities. 
With these operating standards implemented worldwide, we will know as operations professionals that risk is being mitigated and we will be able to ensure Enron top management that there is consistency in operating standards worldwide. 
These global standards also should enable Enron to expand its business reach more quickly, with well defined requirements with regard to trading operations. 
I am not sure from the article as written that the global nature of this effort comes across. 
Finally, a question regarding timing. 
The last I knew after you and Brent drafted this starting point for fundamental operating standards was that this was being circulated (Shona took this to do after Brent's return to Houston) for comments to all business controllers. 
I don't believe that we are quite at the point that we can say that all business controllers worldwide have reviewed, understand and have implemented these standards. 
And not to belittle the process of creating the standards, the tough part (and the real meat behind this) will be an effective exception report on a global basis against these standards. 
My commitment to Rick Causey is that I will have that global report in production by the end of the year. 
There is much work to do in defining the content and regularity of the report and even more work to do to identify reliable sources of data for compiling the report. 
Shona has commissioned Mike Moscoso to work on this, and I believe that Mike has already been working with James New. 
So I question whether or not you want to publish info about fundamental standards that we can not yet report against. 
Would a more appropriate time be after the Global Operations Controller meeting in October when we should have worldwide buy-in and commitment to these standards and (hopefully) our first draft of a meaningful exception report? 
Sorry that this response looks so long. 
I have been interrupted 20 times while responding, so I hope that it makes sense. 
Thanks for sharing this with me. 
Since you asked for input, I hope that you don't mind that I gave you some. 
--Sally 
David W Delainey@ECT 
11/10/2000 01:04 PM 
Steve, I noticed that our allocation from 2000 to 2001 is going up by 21% year on year (ie) $13.9M from $11.5M. 
We have been able to keep ENA's direct group expenses flat year on year, we are trying hard to keep the corporate allocation flat year to year as well. 
Do you have a view on how we might be able to achieve this goal? 
Regards 
Delainey 
Don't worry about it ... sorry for putting you back on speaker. 
I just wanted Sue to hear (she enjoys utility bashing so much). 
Thanks for the comment on the hearing. 
In some respects I don't think the first panel could have gone much better; everyone thanked FERC for intervening (though for different reasons). 
The other staff reports are also looking good. 
Scott Miller has been a godsend -- somebody not afraid to tell it like it is. 
Jeff Dasovich 
Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 
11/10/2000 12:33 PM 
I apologize if I offended anyone. 
Please let them know that I was simply quoting the CEO of a large, regulated utility in California. 
Thanks for attributing the quote to me. 
You did a great job at the hearing----it went decidely downhill after you left. 
Best, 
Jeff 
Does she have any interest in meeting one-on-one or is she just looking for a public hanging? 
I remain convinced that if we can just get the facts in front of people they will modulate their approach. 
Jeff Dasovich 
Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 
11/10/2000 12:21 PM 
Given the short notice, we will politely decline to participate at the hearing on Monday, but will let the good Senator know that, in general, we intend to engage actively in the process and plan to help California find a solution that works for everybody. 
Amen. 
See below. 
Can we get some help on the IBM issues? 
Erin Rice 
11/10/2000 11:08 AM 
Steve: 
At this point, our IT contacts are backpedalling a bit and suggesting they can overcome the TIBCO and Terminal Server problems. 
There are still four important issues, however: 
IT still cannot commit to transferring messages across domains. 
This means that messages initiated at Corp and intended for the entire Enron organization will not reach any business units outside the Corp domain. 
No messages will reach the EES organization unless IBM agrees not to use their proprietary message delivery tool, WebSphere, and will use WebLogic instead. 
WebLogic is required by BackWeb, although it is designed by a separate company. 
HR, intended to be a key user of this tool, will not use BackWeb because survey responses cannot be made anonymous. 
HR has already purchased a tool called CONFIRMIT that can execute anonymous surveys. 
Messages will not be delivered simultaneously to all users in the same domain, nor will they be delivered for two to five hours after they are sent by the message administrator. 
Another thing to consider is that these messages will be set to expire and disappear within a set period of time, meaning users cannot retrieve them and read them later (as they can with e-mail). 
This means that I could be away from the office for several days and miss a message entirely, because it would have expired and disappeared by the time I returned. 
The plain fact is that a few members of IT are pushing this initiative, but they lack commercial sponsorship. 
They are hoping Corp will foot the bill for a pilot which will allow them to fully test this tool before implementing it company-wide. 
Please let us know if you have additional questions. 
- er 
Steven J Kean 
11/09/2000 11:35 AM 
Do we have a sense for how many we can reach, how many we can't and where they are? 
Are whole offices (eg Tokyo) unreachable or is it only those who have home offices? 
Courtney Votaw 
11/08/2000 11:02 AM 
Mark and Steve- 
Erin Rice and I would like to meet with you to discuss the issues concerning BackWeb before we proceed. 
As you can see from the Design Document, they are pretty significant. 
Thanks, 
Courtney 
calendar 
Paul Kaufman@ECT 
Sent by: Lysa Akin@ECT 
11/10/2000 05:59 PM 
Paul Kaufman has asked me to set a conference call to review the FERC Meeting that was held Thursday, Nov. 9th. 
Please be advised that I have set the call as follows: 
Date: Monday, Nov. 13th 
Time: 11:30am / 1:30pm Central / 2:30pm Eastern 
Call In #: 888-422-7132 
Pin #: 411507 
Pin # for Paul Kaufman ONLY: 362416 
If you have any questions, please call 503/464-7927. 
Lysa Akin Ass't. to Paul Kaufman 
it's on tonight 
it's did you watch your girl on tv last night? 
the deal number is 814014-why can't you see this? 
Did you do a deal with National Fuel Marketing purchasing 3,500 mmbtu on May 30th @2.975? 
They are invoicing for this and I don't have an invoice for it. 
Can you give me the Sitara deal #? 
Thanks 
Darla 
Ok to book for me and my husband, Joseph. 
I was issued a new corporate American Express card. 
Same number with expiration date of 3/03. 
If you need any more info, please advise. 
Otherwise, I will assume you will book the two tickets. 
Thank you. 
Actually-upon second look the deal number is 814014-why can't you see this? 
Did you do a deal with National Fuel Marketing purchasing 3,500 mmbtu on May 30th @2.975? 
They are invoicing for this and I don't have an invoice for it. 
Can you give me the Sitara deal #? 
Thanks 
Darla 
should be non bondad 
Jane, on deal 763736 for May 01 sales to Southwest Gas, we have a pricing discrepancy. 
Our system reflects SJ Bondad GDP but SWG is going to pay us based on SJ Non-Bondad GDP. 
Can you please confirm which price is correct and make the change in Sitara if necessary? 
Thanks 
Laurie Ellis Enron Net Works LLC Client Services Phone: (713) 345-9945 Fax: (713) 646-8420 Email: laurie.ellis@enron.com 
Sorry about the flooding. 
Hope you and your family survived ok. 
Attached are the gas settlement and support for May. 
The only difference we had was for package V02. 
Mark Anderson says that even though Bondad gas flowed, the price was Non-Bondad. 
Have a great day. 
Nancy 
- ENRON.XLS << File: ENRON.XLS >> 
- enrongss.xls << File: enrongss.xls >> 
actually -for volumes flowing out of bondad-which is deal number 763736 price is bondad gda;for blanco-deal number 759933-price is nonbondad gda 
Jane, on deal 763736 for May 01 sales to Southwest Gas, we have a pricing discrepancy. 
Our system reflects SJ Bondad GDP but SWG is going to pay us based on SJ Non-Bondad GDP. 
Can you please confirm which price is correct and make the change in Sitara if necessary? 
Thanks 
Laurie Ellis Enron Net Works LLC Client Services Phone: (713) 345-9945 Fax: (713) 646-8420 Email: laurie.ellis@enron.com 
Sorry about the flooding. 
Hope you and your family survived ok. 
Attached are the gas settlement and support for May. 
The only difference we had was for package V02. 
Mark Anderson says that even though Bondad gas flowed, the price was Non-Bondad. 
Have a great day. 
Nancy 
- ENRON.XLS << File: ENRON.XLS >> 
- enrongss.xls << File: enrongss.xls >> 
I talked with Markat SW Gas-just honro his numbers 
Nancy, can you please reconfirm with Mark the price for the gas at Bondad? 
My trader is supporting her price of SJ Bondad GDP rather than SJ Non-Bondad GDP. 
Thanks 
Laurie Ellis Enron Net Works LLC Client Services Phone: (713) 345-9945 Fax: (713) 646-8420 Email: laurie.ellis@enron.com 
actually -for volumes flowing out of bondad-which is deal number 763736 price is bondad gda;for blanco-deal number 759933-price is nonbondad gda 
Jane, on deal 763736 for May 01 sales to Southwest Gas, we have a pricing discrepancy. 
Our system reflects SJ Bondad GDP but SWG is going to pay us based on SJ Non-Bondad GDP. 
Can you please confirm which price is correct and make the change in Sitara if necessary? 
Thanks 
Laurie Ellis Enron Net Works LLC Client Services Phone: (713) 345-9945 Fax: (713) 646-8420 Email: laurie.ellis@enron.com 
Sorry about the flooding. 
Hope you and your family survived ok. 
Attached are the gas settlement and support for May. 
The only difference we had was for package V02. 
Mark Anderson says that even though Bondad gas flowed, the price was Non-Bondad. 
Have a great day. 
Nancy 
- ENRON.XLS << File: ENRON.XLS >> 
- enrongss.xls << File: enrongss.xls >> 
Please find enclosed EES's request for Volumes for PGE CityGate delvery effective 11/1/01: 
See attached spreadsheet. 
Please quote the Gas on an Indexed Basis. 
If you have any questions or comments, please advise. 
I have not had the patience to get it working-I will callyou some evening and we can walk thru it. 
How was your trip to Des Moines? 
Did dthat stuff form Joe help your car. 
Hey Cester, 
When are we going to get NetMeeting going ? 
How is Deb's knee? 
Did she ever go to a real doctor? 
[Tholt, Jane M.] 
YesShe is having physical theraphy 3 times a week. 
She said it is getting better. 
I haven't seen her for a couple of weeks and have only talked to her. 
I will probably be calling you next week-the desk wants me to become more involved in regulatory updates so I will seek your assistance with this matter. 
Jared just told me you have a BUNCH of stuff on your plate and I think you are about to get much busier too. 
cool by me! 
Jared, Ruth and I are going to go over all the Florida activity tomorrow morning. 
If no one objects, I will be the lead coordinator on Florida starting tomorrow. 
Yes maam, she's UBS now. 
She was just down here too. 
Chris, 
I didn't remember if your email mentioned Judy. 
Did she make it? 
Cindy Franklin Transportation Services Work:832.676.3177 Fax: 832.676.1329 Pager: 1.888.509.3736 
****************************************************************** 
This email and any files transmitted with it from the ElPaso Corporation are confidential and intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to whom they are addressed. 
If you have received this email in error please notify the sender. 
****************************************************************** 
Jared, Ruth and I are going to go over all the Florida activity tomorrow morning. 
If no one objects, I will be the lead coordinator on Florida starting tomorrow. 
OK, I never get to talk to Ruth because SHE IS ALWAYS ON THE PHONE. 
And I bet she's on the phone with Shemin too!!! 
Should we all get together and make a conference call to Dominion like we did before or should I just call Jeff Davis myself? 
Our last call was Iris Kind, Bill Savier(sp?), and Jeff Davis. 
Don't forget about me. 
I'm still trying to find out what it will take to move gas on and ENA tabs agreement. 
No transportation at this point, just a tabs. 
Also, it will be much easier for you guys to monitor because most of the deals will be monthly. 
Steve, everything looks good with one exception. 
The rate schedule on Tennessee should be either NET-2 or NET-284. 
I won't find out until Monday. 
You review and approve it, keep it on your desk, and I will come over and make the change at your desk on Monday. 
Then I'll take it to Ed for his approval. 
By the way, Cullen and Dykman is sending copies of what we are doing to Melanie Gray. 
Chris: 
Per our conversation a few minutes ago, attached please find the revised Stipulation. 
This document has been modified with the changes that were in the mark-up you faxed to Toni Donohue here a few hours ago. 
I also deleted "subject to recall" based on our discussion, assuming you get approval for that revision. 
You informed me that you would discuss this with your attorney. 
Also, as I mentioned to you, we have faxed your mark-up to Melanie Gray at Weil Gotschal in Houston to keep her informed. 
(Her voice mail says she's out of the office until Monday.) 
Thanks for all your help on this. 
David T. Metcalfe Cullen and Dykman LLP 177 Montague Street Brooklyn, New York 11201 phone: 718-780-0046 fax: 718-780-0276 e-mail: dmetcalfe@cullenanddykman.com 
____________________________________________________ 
This email may contain material that is confidential, privileged and/or attorney work product for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). 
Any review, reliance or distribution by others or forwarding without express permission is strictly prohibited. 
If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the sender and delete all copies. 
<<Stipulation -ECT-KEDNE re IGTS & Tennessee Cap Releases -FINAL.doc>> 
<<BLACKLINE -Stip -ECT-KEDNE re Cap Releases -2-F.doc>> 
- Stipulation -ECT-KEDNE re IGTS & Tennessee Cap Releases -FINAL.doc - BLACKLINE -Stip -ECT-KEDNE re Cap Releases -2-F.doc 
A heartwarming story of the advances of women in achieving equality throughout the world. 
Barbara Walters did a story on gender roles in Kuwait several years before the Gulf War. 
She noted then that women customarily walked about 10 feet behind their husbands. 
She returned to Kuwait recently and observed that the men now walked several yards behind their wives. 
Ms. Walters approached one of the women and said, "This is marvelous. 
Can you tell the free world just what enabled women here to achieve this reversal of roles?" 
"Land mines," said the Kuwaiti woman. 
Cullen and Dykman (attorneys for Boston Gas Company) approved all of our changes on the agreement to release the Tenn and Iroq space back to Boston Gas. 
They also made one other change, they are taking out the "subject to recall" language at the bottom of page 2 under item #1. 
They will be sending the revised document to me. 
I will deliver it to you for your approval. 
Maybe we can go drinking too. 
That would be fun. 
I'll be at your house around 10:30 or 11 tonight. 
YOU REALLY DO NOT HAVE TO GO. 
I KNOW YOU HAVE A LOT GOING ON WITH YOU AND THE LITTLE WOMAN. 
I CAN HANDLE THE TRACTOR. 
love TO HAVE YOU ALONG FOR THE COMPANY, BUT IT IS NOT NECESSARY. 
YOU HAVE A LOT ON YOU PLATE, DAD. 
Chris.Germany@enron.com on 01/25/2002 03:13:58 PM 
Funny. 
No. 
I didn't feel guilty about the garage sale, that's why I was annoyed - being notified at 10:00 at night GRRRRRRR. 
I do feel guilty about you doing all this work. 
So I'm going with you, I pay for the gas and the twinkies. 
Correction, 
Jack welch is the CEO of GE, not GM. 
Vince Kaminski 
The eThink Team 
We recently asked you to create an eSpeak "wish list" for us. 
The response was tremendous and, in some cases, very creative. 
Your fellow employees asked for everyone from Britney Spears to George Bush. 
In all, we received requests for 61persons outside of Enron to host an eSpeak event. 
We thought you might like to know who your colleagues find interesting, so we've provided a sampling of the suggestions below. 
Here are the top ten most requested eSpeakers. 
10. Jack Welch, CEO, General Motors 
9. Scott McNeally, CEO, Sun Microsystems 
8. Satisfied Enron Customers 
7. Stephen Covey, author, The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People 
6. Oprah Winfrey, talkshow host 
5. General Colin Powell, former Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, U.S.A. 
4. Alan Greenspan, Chairman, Federal Reserve, U.S.A. 
3. Former U.S. President George Bush 
2. Bill Gates, CEO, Microsoft 
1. Texas Governor George W. Bush 
While we can't make any promises, we will do our best to bring in at least some of these special guests. 
If you have any contacts who could help us get in touch with these guest speakers, please let us know at ethink@enron.com. 
Everybody needs a little help now and then, even eSpeak. 
There were plenty of internal speakers requested, as well. 
Those requests should be somewhat easier to meet, although scheduling time with some of our colleagues can be quite a task! 
Thank you all for your participation. 
Dale, 
Confirmed. 
Vince 
Vince: 
7am at Hyatt Regency Downtown would be perfect. 
I will see you in the lobby at 7am. 
Best regards, 
Dale 
Dale, 
Friday is a bad day (Performance Review Committee all day). 
What about 7:00 at the office or breakfast meeting at 7:00? 
We can meet at Hyatt Regency Downtown (Smith Street). 
Vince 
Vince: 
Can we get together Friday morning July 7 at 800 am at your office? 
That would be particularly convenient for me. 
I will have to leave downtown at about 945 to catch a plane. 
That will ensure that I wont take up too much of your time!! 
Thanks for your efforts here, and thanks for being patient with me. 
Dale Nesbitt 
FYI 
Vince sold! 
I'll initiate the call. 
Ed, 
Thursday works for me. 
What about 10:30 my time? 
Vince 
Please respond to <ekrapels@esaibos.com> 
how about Thursday, July 6? 
Ed, 
A correction. 
I shall spend an entire day at PRC (performance review) on Friday, July 7. 
Can we do on another day 
Vince 
Please respond to <ekrapels@esaibos.com> 
I'll still be here in Boston so we'd do it over the phone. 
OK? 
Ed, 
Will you be in Houston on that day or we shall do it over the phone? 
Vince 
Please respond to <ekrapels@esaibos.com> 
Vince, 
How about a pre-meeting web site cruise on Friday, July 7 at 11AM EDT? 
Ed 
Ed, 
July 12, 2:30 it is. 
I would like the pre-meeting site cruise. 
How can we arrange it? 
Vince 
Please respond to <ekrapels@esaibos.com> 
Vince, 
We're all set for 2:30 on July 12. 
How about a pre-meeting web site cruise on Friday, July 7 at 11AM EDT? 
Ed 
Ed, 
Wednesday, July 12, 2:300 will work for me. 
I shall be glad to review your website -- www.weathereffects.com. 
I shall invite some people who work on electricity in my group to join me. 
Vince 
Please respond to <ekrapels@esaibos.com> 
Vince, 
Good to hear from you and I'm glad you're available. 
How is Wednesday at 2:30? 
I did look at EOL and am not surprised to see its quality. 
I was unable to say much about it in my Risk Electricity Hedging and Trading report because of deadline pressures. 
How is the site doing? 
I am intrigued by the competition for trading platforms and was astonished to hear that Goldman, Morgan, BP and Shell were going to launch a site to compete with yours. 
Talk about a shotgun marriage! 
If we have time next week, I could step you through our website -- www.weathereffects.com. 
I'm very proud of what we've done. 
I can't give out a password yet but would be happy to walk through the site with you over the phone using my password. 
It's a very ambitious site -- with state-of-the-art WSI weather (seasonal, 6-10, and day to day) driving a good load model for PJM and NEPOOL. 
ESAI contributes oil and gas input price forecasts, capacity judgments, and "herding" ideas to develop power price forecasts for same time periods. 
After one month's full-bore effort, I'm pleased with the results (e.g., we forecast Nepool onpeak to be $43 and it turned out $46). 
Have a great weekend. 
Ed 
Ed, 
I shall be available on both days. 
What about Wednesday, July 12, between 1:30 and 4:00. 
Please, let me know what time would work for you. 
It will be nice to see you again. 
Vince 
P.S. By the way, did you have a chance to take a look at the EOL? 
Please respond to ekrapels@esaibos.com 
Caroline Abramo@ENRON 
03/02/2001 10:46 AM 
what do you think? 
Joe_Lardy@cargill.com on 03/02/2001 10:39:03 AM 
Currently Cargill and Enron have a 15MM collateral threshold. 
If possible, I think the cleanest way to run this biz would be to put a box around the prime broker biz. 
We would still operate under the master isda but could set up a mutually agreeable credit support annex for this biz. 
We would still keep the 20,000,000 line referenced in Schedule B of the POA agreement. 
The line in the POA is a seperate and distinct measure from the daily collateral. 
The 20 mill reflects gross exposure. 
Let me know if you think this is reasonable and workable. 
We too, are open to suggestion as the Global and Enron relationships are very important and a high priority to us. 
Thanks 
Joe 
Joe- 
a few things regading the POA/ Cargill line.. 
I am going to find out how much line we currently have available... you probably already have this. 
We should allocate a piece to Global which would solve the problem of other Cargill people using the line, putting us over the limit, without me knowing... 
We could change the language of the POA to this... 
we will not go over Global's piece of the Cargill line...
I think this would solve our main concern... 
Please let me know... we are eager to keep trading with Global and yourselves... 
Regards, 
Caroline 
Dee: 
Let me know if we need to discuss anything. 
I am hopeful that we are ready to prepare execution copies. 
Regards. 
Sara Shackleton 
Susan Bailey 
02/27/2001 08:23 AM 
Dee, 
Attached for your review is a blacklined version of the: (a) Schedule and (b) Paragraph 13 to the ISDA Master Agreement. 
These have been compared against the draft dated 11/8/2000, and include ENA's accepted changes per your (a) faxed comments transmitted to ENA on January 5, 2001, and (b) e-mail comments transmitted to ENA on January 19th, 2001. 
We look forward to your response. 
Cordially, 
Susan S. Bailey 
I don't know anything about these transactions. 
Sara Shackleton 
Jorge A Garcia@ENRON 
03/01/2001 01:35 PM 
Good Afternoon Sara, 
I wanted to follow up with you regarding the creation and approval of ISDA Confirmations for the following equity trades that I understand Laurel had discussed with you previously. 
1) Edison International- Swap with Enron Europe Ltd. (2 in total) 
2) PG&E- Swap with Enron Europe Ltd. (3 in total) 
Please advise. 
Regards, 
Jorge 
"Calculation of Floating Amount: The Floating Amount payable by [ENA] on a Payment Date will be calculated for that Payment Date as follows: 
Floating Amount = (Notional Quantity per Calculation Period X Floating Price) - USD[38,000?] 
Sara Shackleton 
"Other Provisions: On each Payment Date, [ENA] shall pay [a fee of] [an amount equal to] USD{38,000?], which amount shall be subject to the netting provisions of the [Master Agreement - how do you refer to the agreement?]" 
Sara Shackleton 
Sara Shackleton 
03/02/2001 02:10 PM 
"Calculation of Floating Amount: The Floating Amount payable by [ENA] on a Payment Date will be calculated for that Payment Date as follows: 
Floating Amount = (Notional Quantity per Calculation Period X Floating Price) - USD[38,000?] 
Sara Shackleton 
What person(s) in London prepares credit for the English and Singapore financial transactions? 
At some point in the not so distant future, the Houson and London credit departments need to speak in order that each understands the "philosophy" behind credit analysis for the omnibus and master transactions. 
I look forward to hearing from you. 
Regards. 
Sara 
ps Congrats on your promotion! 
I didn't have a chance to speak with you after the offsite to shake your hand. 
Hope you enjoyed your weekend in Houston. 
looks fine 
Sara Shackleton 
Carlos Alatorre@ENRON 
02/27/2001 06:07 PM 
Sara: 
We need to change the Prod Description fro the LME Product. 
The change is mainly on the Settlement Date text, which instead of "...Two business days after the date of the Transaction..." shall read as follow: 
For Curr LME LME (Spot) 01Mar01 JPY/USD 
A currency Transaction with Enron Europe Finance & Trading Limited ("EEFTL") as agent for Risk Management & Trading Corp. under which either (A) for the case in which Counterparty submits an offer to buy from EEFTL, Counterparty shall receive the Base Currency Amount and shall pay the Foreign Currency Amount, or (B) for the case in which Counterparty submits an offer to sell to EEFTL, Counterparty shall pay the Base Currency Amount and shall receive the Foreign Currency Amount. 
The Base Currency Amount shall equal the volume submitted by the Counterparty via the Website. 
The Foreign Currency Amount shall equal the Base Currency Amount, multiplied by the daily London Metal Exchange (LME) fixing rate as published by Reuters on page MTLE on the date of the transaction, modified by the price submitted by the Counterparty via the Website. 
The term of the Transaction shall correspond to the date(s) set forth in the Product description on the Website. 
The Settlement date shall be the date(s) set forth in the Product description on the Website. 
The price is quoted in JPY (the 'Foreign Currency') per US Dollar (the 'Base Currency'). 
The unit of measure against which the price is quoted shall be US Dollars. 
Please let me know your approval before we make any changes. 
Thanks 
Carlos 
I need to have a form filled out that says I don't have health insurance coverage through Enron. 
Can you find out who I need to send it to in HR? 
Thanks, 
Kay 
Your mom just called and said your dad's surgery will be at 2:30 p.m. 
Tuesday, March 20th. 
They will be there by noon on the 20th, and the surgery will last 1.5 hours and then they'll watch him for 2 more hours before they put him into ICU. 
They are hoping he'll only be in the hospital 48 hours. 
Scott 
Term sheet for draft contract, as requested. 
I have a change in plans next week. 
My dad is having surgery in Ft. Worth, so I will be heading that way on Monday. 
I was planning to be on vacation anyway, but I may have some accessibility challenges in Ft. Worth which I would not have had otherwise. 
I will manage client expectations accordingly. 
Kay 
I hope you don't change your mind about going to the wedding Sunday. 
I plan on taking Michael to the new Star Wars exhibit at the Museum of Fine Arts. 
They showed some kids on TV, and they were quite taken with it. 
++++++CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE+++++ 
The information in this email may be confidential and/or privileged. 
This email is intended to be reviewed by only the individual or organization named above. 
If you are not the intended recipient or an authorized representative of the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any review, dissemination or copying of this email and its attachments, if any, or the information contained herein is prohibited. 
If you have received this email in error, please immediately notify the sender by return email and delete this email from your system. 
Thank You 
Kay Mann 
03/15/2001 04:03 PM 
I have a change in plans next week. 
My dad is having surgery in Ft. Worth, so I will be heading that way on Monday. 
I was planning to be on vacation anyway, but I may have some accessibility challenges in Ft. Worth which I would not have had otherwise. 
I will manage client expectations accordingly. 
Kay 
I'm not planning to get involved since this is your deal. 
Is that ok with you? 
Lorie Leigh @ ECT 
03/15/2001 04:17 PM 
Conference Plus will be hosting this call: 
the date: Thursday, March 22nd, 2001 
the number: 1-800-991-9019 
the passcode: 6871082# 
the time: 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM CST 
the place: EB 3143C 
the subject: Turbine 1 and Turbine 2 Purchase Agreement 
If you have any problems or questions, please feel free to call me at 713-853-1696. 
Thank you, 
Lorie Leigh 
Yes, but this time it is his carotid artery - the one that transports blood to the brain. 
Big deal kinda stuff. 
I hope your dad's surgery goes well! 
Is this related to the problems he is having getting around (circulatory?)? 
Kathleen 
Kay Mann 
03/15/2001 04:11 PM 
Kay Mann 
03/15/2001 04:03 PM 
I have a change in plans next week. 
My dad is having surgery in Ft. Worth, so I will be heading that way on Monday. 
I was planning to be on vacation anyway, but I may have some accessibility challenges in Ft. Worth which I would not have had otherwise. 
I will manage client expectations accordingly. 
Kay 
For better or worse, all the folks under the heading "Origination" and "Development" are ours, although Kathleen has a special role with Development. 
Kay 
FYI - See rows 49-53; columns E-J for our group. 
Kathleen 
Lorie Leigh @ ECT 
03/15/2001 04:44 PM 
I received a report from HR and it appears there is conflicting information regarding some of the titles for various employees. 
Please verify that the titles are correct for everyone in your group. 
The ones that I made changes to are in red. 
Thanks, 
Paula. 
I formatted the file so that it would print on one legal size sheet. 
Please use this new file as opposed to the one I sent earlier. 
Please review the attached org chart for March and submit any changes by noon tomorrow. 
It is imperative that all of the information on the attached file is accurate, including titles, as this information is being given directly to John Lavorato and Louise Kitchen. 
Thanks, 
Paula. 
Here's the version showing revisions. 
Kay--
I finally got it to blackline correctly. 
Here it is. 
Also attached is a sample availability provision (actually 2 different versions). 
- redvepco.doc 
- SAMPLE.DOC 
Lorie Leigh @ ECT 
03/15/2001 04:17 PM 
Conference Plus will be hosting this call: 
the date: Thursday, March 22nd, 2001 
the number: 1-800-991-9019 
the passcode: 6871082# 
the time: 10:00 AM - 11:00 AM CST 
the place: EB 3143C 
the subject: Turbine 1 and Turbine 2 Purchase Agreement 
If you have any problems or questions, please feel free to call me at 713-853-1696. 
Thank you, 
Lorie Leigh 46093 
Kay Mann 
02/13/2001 04:13 PM 
Good afternoon, 
I'm forwarding a revised development agreement term sheet, showing revisions from your original version. 
We look forward to seeing you soon. 
Thanks, 
Kay 
Peggy Banczak is the ENA lawyer who handles Mexico. 
John Schwartzenburg@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
03/16/2001 09:22 AM 
I do not think the prior e-mail got through to Kay. 
Are either of you familiar with this project? 
We have had no contact with the ENA/Enron Mexico commercial or legal people and I don't want to bust any structuring goals. 
Our project manager (Scott Laidlaw) and engineer (Harry Okabayashi) want to issue a tasking letter to procure engineering services on this project to support the ENA work. 
I now understand that someone at ENA/Enron Mexico/Enron Wholesale has signed an EPC contract with ABB for this project. 
I am not in the office today, so please include Renee Alfaro on your response. 
JWVS 
Hello Janice: 
I enjoyed your recent e-mail but was sorry to hear about your dad. 
It sounds as though his health has deteriorated significantly. 
These are always difficult times. 
As I watched my mother and father's health deteriorate and ultimately watched them die, it is a very defining time in our lives. 
But we can be very thankful to have such great parents and to have had the privilege to have been raised in such loving homes. 
Sounds as though Eric has done very well as SMSU. 
He is joining an excellent company. 
I am also delighted to hear that he will continue his education working toward an MBA. 
As we are living in an age where intellectual capital is so valuable, it is important for every young person to obtain the very best possible education they can. 
As to our family, within the last ten days our youngest daughter Elizabeth was married to a young man from Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
They met while they were both working on a project as lawyers in Buenos Aires. 
They're currently on their honeymoon but shortly after returning will be moving from Buenos Aires to Miami, Florida. 
This past Thursday night our sixth grandchild was born. 
It was born to our son David and his wife Courtney. 
It was a 7 lb., 10 oz., 20 inch little boy. 
So we now have three grandsons and three granddaughters ranging from about 2 years - 4 months down to a few days. 
They are a great deal of fun. 
We are doing quite well. 
I am looking forward to seeing Ginger "Rees" Copeland when she comes to Houston. 
I would be delighted to arrange tickets for you and your family should you ever have occasion to visit Houston. 
I hope you have a great summer. 
Thank you for your recent request for Mr. Lay to speak at your conference. 
Unfortunately, do to Mr. Lay's schedule he will not be able to participate. 
Thank you again, 
Tori L. Wells Executive Secretary 
Hi - 
Just to let you know that it looks like one day will work. 
I want to check with Mr. Lay before confirming. 
Thanks. 
Rosalee 
Dear Ken, 
As you know, our next meeting is on Wednesday, July 12 from 3:00-5:30 p.m. 
In the next week or so, we'll be sending around a discussion paper which we hope crystallizes the issues, and we will try to talk to as many of you as possible before the meeting to go through it. 
Meanwhile, Arthur Levitt has agreed to meet with us in September to brainstorm on the ideas we've generated and also to give us a sense of some of the issues as he sees them. 
There are three possible dates for the meeting, which I suggest be in two parts -- first, a meeting among the panel only from 5:00-6:30 p.m., and then a dinner with Chairman Levitt from 6:30-8:30 p.m. 
Here are the dates: 
Could you please let us know which of these would be possible for you: 
___________ Thursday, September 14 5:00-8:30 pm 
___________ Monday, September 25 5:00-8:30 pm 
___________ Wednesday, September 27 5:00-8:30 pm 
Many thanks, 
Jeff Garten 
Good morning, Kitty - 
Ken Lay would like to have the Armada M306 series - "the first ultra portable notebook designed for the enterprise". 
Ken said to go ahead and equip it with what you think it should have. 
Please let me know when he can expect to receive it. 
Thanks, Kitty. 
Rosalee 
Here is the link to the latest commercial laptops on the market, I will follow up with the consumer models. 
The M300 series are the lightest and the E500's are the all in one but much heavier. 
http://www.compaq.com/products/notebooks/index.html 
<<Compaq.com - notebook.url>> 
- Compaq.com - notebook.url 
Unfortunately, Mr. Lay will be in San Jose, CA participating in a conference, where he is a speaker, on June 14. 
Rosalee Fleming 
RE:??? 
June 14 Reception 
Recently Charles Miller and David Dewhurst sent you an invitation to a reception which they are hosting on Wed. 6/14 at 5:00 PM to be held at the Houston Petroleum Club. 
I hope that you will be able to attend that event. 
Under the leadership of Governor Bush and others we have made real progress in Education in Texas over the past decade.? 
Now it is time to take the next steps and achieve even greater progress in our public education system. 
The Texas Education Reform Caucus is made up of business leaders, educators, and elected officials dedicated to finding common sense approaches to improving education in Texas. 
I would appreciate the opportunity to visit with you on the 14th. 
Kent Grusendorf 
State Representative District 94 
? 
This is o.k. for Ken Lay, but we are changing to a more uniform address, so would likely be better to use kenneth.lay@enron.com. 
This is a "test email send" of the WPO Forum Group from Richard Everett. 
By return email, please verify that you received this message and let us know if there is another email address that you prefer us to use. 
Thank you. 
Joy Powell Executive Assistant to Richard Everett 713/871-5119 
=================================================== 
NOTE: The information in this email is confidential and may be legally privileged. 
If you are not the intended recipient, you must not read, use or disseminate the information. 
Although this email and any attachments are believed to be free of any virus or other defect that might affect any computer system into which it is received and opened, it is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure that it is virus free and no responsibility is accepted by Century Development or any of its affiliates for any loss or damage arising in any way from its use. 
==================================================== 
Kenneth Lay has approved the attached expense report for Cindy Olson. 
Hi Mr. Katsof - 
I believe someone called about this today, but Mr. Lay asked me to let you know that these dates don't work for him, either. 
Sorry. 
Rosalee 
let me know if you have any interest in the Tco-Pool Leach swap for the winter. 
I'll take TCO pool at Index and sale Leach or Pool at Index - $.04. 
I can't remember if you guys could do it or not. 
Could you tell me what deal tickets you are seeing? 
Please check Tenn contract 36647 on the Demand speadsheet. 
Sitara isn't matching the spreadsheet. 
Thanks, 
Brenda 
Pasquallie, 
-5 for spelling, 
W. Don Germany, Jr PO Box 27 Cedar Lane, Texas 77415-0027 
Actually it is not a new truck. 
Had 33,000 miles, Ram 2500 3/4 ton, 4 x 4, 360 Magnum Motor. 
Infinity stereo, bucket seats, nerf bars, tool box, bed liner, camper tow package, 5 speed manual. 
Oh, it is dueled out through one catalytic converter with Flow Masters to accent the sound. 
Makes me want to race!!! 
I believe the fuel consumption will be tolerable as well. 
Now, Debbie wants it. 
I gave $16,900 + tax. 
It is very clean and is Sandalwood, Driftwood or something of that nature in color. 
Almost silver. 
I have to pick up old gray over at Jerry's. 
Debbie said, it is going to be hard on me to sale my old dodge truck. 
I said Yep, had that truck longer than I have had most of my women. 
I really need to engage brain before articulating! 
I am doing dirt work and hope to plant ST Augustine Grass by Friday before rain. 
One thing is for sure, the economy is not faltering on my account. 
Dow Stock is back up over $33. 
Hooray, hoorah! 
Needs to go to $41 and then I will be happy. 
I spoke with Gerald and he said there are a bunch of folks hanging around Dad's place. 
We need to change the lock and place posted signs at the gate. 
I may want to put some steers or heifers up there. 
I am going up soon and having the tractor fixed. 
Reggie said he will pay us soon. 
He also still wants the tractor if we can hold on to it. 
First come, first serve. 
When is the wedding? 
We're set for 11/01/01. 
Be sure to take your sweety out on the balcony tonight and gaze at the full moon. 
It was sure beautiful coming up last night. 
We used to go out and lay in the pasture on a blanket and watch for the space shuttle. 
I had a couple of hickies on my neck the day after and the guys all wanted to know if those were shuttle burns. 
Just jealous. 
My kid is making wonderful grades and has reassured me she will graduate within the four year period. 
She still has some sort of scholarship but I am not for sure how much it pays. 
She is going to be a kinesiologist, sports injury therapist. 
I think she just wants to be able to touch football players legs. 
She will be 20 on 11/03. 
I am really proud of her. 
Cindy said Jaime has grown up very much. 
You should e mail her sometimes. 
I am sure she would like to hear from you. 
Jgerma5@aol.com. 
At any rate, be careful and be safe. 
You should have listened to Maw, as long as you keep your mouth shut and your pants zipped, you will be alright. 
Shucks, guess none of us three paid much attention to that. 
Oh, Jeff Sherrar has a new book out. 
Rise to Rebellion. 
There were some pretty cool dudes back around 1774/76. 
There will be two volumes to this saga. 
I am half way through the first and you can borrow it when I am through. 
I sure like his style of writing. 
His books are always hard to put down. 
After the split Dow Stock there are 120 shares. 
Keep Your Powder Dry! 
Yo, 
Bro 
Dow 
W. Don Germany, Jr. 2301 N Brazosport Blvd B 3611, Investment Recovery Freeport, Texas 77541 Pager 1 800 451 0491 (0448) Office 979 238 2102 Home 979 548 7034 
What's happening? 
I understand you have a brand new truck. 
Must be nice having money!! 
I need 2 things from you. 
1. I found the title to the 4 wheeler and I was going to change it over to you name. 
What do you think? 
If that's ok, how do you want your name to show up on the title and what address should I use? 
2. I'm getting ready to divy up the Dow stock. 
How many of Dad's shares do you have? 
Last thing, send me a million dollars, I'm tired of working. 
I thought we only had cashout, at most 3 times, before this June. 
I can't remember. 
I do know that most of the time this plant was not buring like it did in July and August of this year. 
I say we just keep the dough and go to Mexico. 
Hey guys, 
Would you please ck the Oglethorpe deal from July 2000 - Dec 2000? 
Is there supposed to be a cashout booked in Sitara for these months? 
Oglethorpe over paid their invoice every month. 
I believe that Doug told me the extra was for the cashout that was not invoiced. 
Thanks 
Darla 
I can't get through on the phones. 
Please call me 713-853-4743 
Hey Ernie. 
I'm checking my emails. 
I assume you have your anwser and don't need me. 
Hi Chris, 
I sent this to Mary last week. 
She may be out because in the past she always responds pretty quick. 
I need the prices below. 
Can you help out? 
Thanks, 
Ernie Simien 
08/01/2001 09:14 AM 
Sent by: Ernie Simien 
Hi Mary, 
I need your help again. 
I need prices for May, June, and July. 
Thanks, 
Mary.Ellenberger@enron.com on 05/03/2001 04:06:52 PM 
Please respond to Mary.Ellenberger@enron.com 
cc: 
Subject: Re: IF TGPL LA Z1 
Jan 9.95 Feb 6.25 Mar 4.98 April 5.37 
esimien@nisource.com on 05/03/2001 01:32:35 PM 
Hi Mary, 
Please do me a favour and give me the subject price for Jan, Feb, Mar and Apr 2001. 
Thanks, 
Gregg Penman 
10/23/2000 12:12 PM 
Kay - 
Can you please review this additional language to the risk management policy ( or circulate to Jeff Hodge)? 
In light of the CA regarding curves, I am slightly concerned with a blanket statement essentially giving Peoples unlimited access to information. 
I know that we address audit rights in the LLC agreement so this may not matter anyway if this is a right they already have. 
Let me know what you think. 
Thanks, 
Gregg 
m.nordstrom@pecorp.com 
10/20/2000 11:32 AM 
Attached please find the latest enovate risk policy. 
Our attorneys and internal audit area have made one language revision concerning Section XIII Audit Rights. 
Mary <<MEH-risk Oct 20>> 
- MEH-risk Oct 20.doc 
I'm still at home. 
I'll be in tomorrow. 
I have a fax machine at home, though, if you prefer. 
Otherwise, we can see who we can scare up at the office, or you can have Laura sign and I'll initial later. 
Which do you prefer? 
Kay 
Are you in the office to initial signature pages today? 
If not, is there someone else that will? 
I know that Jeff is in Portland. 
Gregg 
Kay Mann 
10/26/2000 11:07 AM 
If Jeff is happy, I'm happy. 
Kay 
Hello - 
I spoke with Jeff Hodge yesterday regarding the additional language from Peoples regarding Audit Rights. 
His initial reaction was that their request was probably reasonable and in line with the spirit of a jointly owned L.L.C. 
However, he did suggest a couple slight revisions to protect Enron's interests. 
1) Highlighting that information will only be provided that is related to enovate and 2) that each designated representative should sign an appropriate confidentiality agreement. 
This language has been included in the attached draft. 
My goal, however optimistic, is to execute the risk policy by the end of today. 
Activity is picking up dramatically and the fine line is getting further blurred each passing day. 
Therefore, I need to know ASAP if there are any problems with the draft as written. 
Otherwise, I will be sending it to Peoples as our final revision by mid morning. 
Thanks for your prompt attention to this. 
Thanks, 
Gregg 
Gregg Penman 
10/23/2000 12:12 PM 
Kay - 
Can you please review this additional language to the risk management policy ( or circulate to Jeff Hodge)? 
In light of the CA regarding curves, I am slightly concerned with a blanket statement essentially giving Peoples unlimited access to information. 
I know that we address audit rights in the LLC agreement so this may not matter anyway if this is a right they already have. 
Let me know what you think. 
Thanks, 
Gregg 
m.nordstrom@pecorp.com 
10/20/2000 11:32 AM 
Attached please find the latest enovate risk policy. 
Our attorneys and internal audit area have made one language revision concerning Section XIII Audit Rights. 
Mary 
<<MEH-risk Oct 20>> 
- MEH-risk Oct 20.doc 
It is less complicated for me to initial and fax than to track down someone who doesn't know anything about it and get them to initial it. 
I can print it here, initial it, and fax it to whomever you want. 
Plus, I work with Janet a lot so she may get some comfort from that, instead of having a lawyer she hasn't dealt with initial it. 
She is very conscientious about what she signs, and who initials what. 
Is the attached form the final final form? 
Where and to whom do you want it faxed? 
Thanks, 
Kay 
Since it will be Janet signing, it will probably be better to have the initials on the pages first. 
Either fax or someone else works fine. 
Let me know which is easier and we can coordinate. 
Gregg 
Kay Mann 
10/26/2000 11:26 AM 
I'm still at home. 
I'll be in tomorrow. 
I have a fax machine at home, though, if you prefer. 
Otherwise, we can see who we can scare up at the office, or you can have Laura sign and I'll initial later. 
Which do you prefer? 
Kay 
Are you in the office to initial signature pages today? 
If not, is there someone else that will? 
I know that Jeff is in Portland. 
Gregg 
Kay Mann 
10/26/2000 11:07 AM 
If Jeff is happy, I'm happy. 
Kay 
Hello - 
I spoke with Jeff Hodge yesterday regarding the additional language from Peoples regarding Audit Rights. 
His initial reaction was that their request was probably reasonable and in line with the spirit of a jointly owned L.L.C. 
However, he did suggest a couple slight revisions to protect Enron's interests. 
1) Highlighting that information will only be provided that is related to enovate and 2) that each designated representative should sign an appropriate confidentiality agreement. 
This language has been included in the attached draft. 
My goal, however optimistic, is to execute the risk policy by the end of today. 
Activity is picking up dramatically and the fine line is getting further blurred each passing day. 
Therefore, I need to know ASAP if there are any problems with the draft as written. 
Otherwise, I will be sending it to Peoples as our final revision by mid morning. 
Thanks for your prompt attention to this. 
Thanks, 
Gregg 
Gregg Penman 
10/23/2000 12:12 PM 
Kay - 
Can you please review this additional language to the risk management policy ( or circulate to Jeff Hodge)? 
In light of the CA regarding curves, I am slightly concerned with a blanket statement essentially giving Peoples unlimited access to information. 
I know that we address audit rights in the LLC agreement so this may not matter anyway if this is a right they already have. 
Let me know what you think. 
Thanks, 
Gregg 
m.nordstrom@pecorp.com 
10/20/2000 11:32 AM 
Attached please find the latest enovate risk policy. 
Our attorneys and internal audit area have made one language revision concerning Section XIII Audit Rights. 
Mary 
<<MEH-risk Oct 20>> 
- MEH-risk Oct 20.doc 
I'm working on it now. 
Maybe we (Enron) could review it tomorrow morning, then send it to FCE. 
I can meet around 10:00. 
That way, we can get it to them in time for weekend review. 
Does that work? 
Kay 
It was good to hear from you! 
We had a nice Thanksgiving here too. 
It's funny, because usually it's just me, Mom, Craig and Danelia, and Danelia doesn't really like roasted turkey or roast beef (not that she would say it to me!), so there is not just the same joy in cooking it would be elsewise. 
It was good having the girls down. 
We played a new version of Uno called "African Uno" that was complex, fast and at times, physically challenging. 
It's not for the meek. 
It was incredible what a good player Alena was. 
She had her cards memorized as well as everyone elses (when you play you'll see why you can know everyone elses hands!). 
I expect Craig didn't want Mom to see his place because it was messy. 
I think compared to my house, he's embarrased about his apartment. 
Then, also, he's got so much stuff in there right now, that I don't know how he's going to fit baby stuff. 
They would only give him a 6 month lease when he renewed his lease last month because they don't want 3 people in that small apartment. 
So he's going to have to start looking for another place. 
And his apartment is so run down down I'm afraid roaches might be crawling over the baby. 
I guess Mom is going to come back down sometime in March or April to see the new baby. 
You'll have to come visit to check out my new house. 
The upstairs "guest suite" is pretty neat. 
It's got its own bathroom and tv, and is pretty cozy. 
As far as the call with Uncle Ben goes, if he was thrilled to hear from me I couldn't tell by his voice. 
It was a pretty stilted conversation for both of us. 
But, I guess, it's a start... 
I've already made my XMAS plans. 
I leave the evening of the 21st, my flight comes in about 10 pm, and leave the morning of the 27th at 6 am. 
It's good chatting with you. 
Keep in touch! 
Kyle.Jones@radianz.com 
11/29/2000 05:07 PM 
Tana, 
I don't understand, what do you mean by "log in an email"? 
Anyway, I got you message, and I got the World Series thing (although I had already received 
Chris and Ben did a marvelous job for Thanksgiving, I can testify that it was one of the best Thanksgiv8ing Dinners I've ever had (I not gonna tell them that, I don't want them getting swell heads). 
Ma said she had a great time in Houston, She was happy to see yourself, as well as C & D. 
I think she likes her special room in your house. 
Your gonna be the first to see the new baby (woudn't it be wierd if the baby gets botn on Jan 5th?) 
Why didn't Craig show Ma his appartment? 
What do you think about your phone ocnversation with Unlce Ben (he was almost shocked)? 
Are you coming for Xmas? 
Gotta go for now. 
Love ya. 
Kyle 
==================================================== 
(Harrison) Kyle Jones Technical Solutions Engineer 
==================================================== 
Radianz 1251 Avenue of the Americas 7th Floor New York, NY 10016 USA Phone: +1 (212) 899-4425 Fax: +1 (212) 899-4310 Cell: +1 (917) 859-7187 Email: kyle.jones@radianz.com 
==================================================== 
See our web page at" http://www.radianz.com 
==================================================== 
|--------+-----------------------> | | Tana.Jones@en| | | ron.com | | | | | | 11/29/2000 | | | 04:34 PM | | | | |--------+-----------------------> 
>----------------------------------------------------------------------------| | | >----------------------------------------------------------------------------| 
Hey, Mr. Computer, you can't log an email in to your sister?! 
Kyle.Jones@ra 
Return Receipt 
Your World Series in Question document: was received Kyle Jones/US/AMERICAS/Equant by: at: 01:00:51 PM Today 
You can take my assistant Taffy Milligan off these emails again. 
Thanks! 
Adnan Patel@ENRON 
11/29/2000 04:49 PM 
Attached are the GCP Signoffs on EOL Approvals for 11/29/00 with GCP responses marked in Red. 
Adnan Patel 
Bradley Diebner@ECT 
11/29/2000 04:31 PM 
Regards, 
bd 
Attached is the referenced agreement. 
Let me know if the notice information is OK with you. 
If so, I'll get it signed by Craig Breslau today, then bring it to you for countersignature. 
Thinking about that, what's your title? 
I'm not sure you have the authority to sign documents w/o special authority... 
No, it does not mean that. 
Adding all the Enron "Specified Entities" would only make a default under a financial transaction with those other Enron entities a default under this agreement. 
Our concern is that we don't want any trading related defaults to ever trigger a default under a loan transaction which has a swap as a component. 
Richard Sage 
11/30/2000 10:52 AM 
If you do add all the entities, does that mean that we would not need to put in place a separate agreement for ECCL? 
With respect to Deutsche Bank (""DB"), we have one credit issue remaining, DB would like us to add all the Enron trading entities DB trades with as Specified Entities under the ISDA Master Agreement and we are somewhat hesitant to do so, as this could potentially roll up swaps under structured loan transactions into a default under the ISDA Agreement. 
Sara and Bill Bradford in Credit are supposed to talk to the DB Credit people about this remaining issue. 
With respect to First Union National Bank, the draft we were working from was so old that they agreed to look at our current form of agreement which was sent to them on 11/8/00 for review. 
Sara is working on that with Susan Bailey, another paralegal in our Group. 
Denis O'Connell 
11/22/2000 06:05 AM 
Tana - 
can you please give me an update on where you are in the negotiations of the ISDA with the following counterparties and confirm which Enron entity you are negotiating on behalf of. 
Tks, 
Denis 
First Union National Bank 
Deutsched Bank AG 
I spoke to Mark Taylor about your signing authority, and he agrees that you do not have the authority to execute documents on your own, but as long as you are only co-signing documents signed by an authorized officer as a control measure we're OK. 
Susan, Joe, 
The referenced TAGG # was entered as a 'New Counterparty', can you please let me know what counterparty this is so we can correctly assess the counterparty exposure. 
Thank you, 
Russell 
Hey there yourself, 
Sorry I haven't written you guys in a while to keep you properly updated. 
I am indeed checking on flights to Seoul and don't think I'm going to go at exactly the same time as my parents. 
As much fun as they are, I figured we would probably do some different things than what you have planned for them. 
As for Ted, things are still going well although I haven't see him at all this week (we are two very busy people). 
But, we had a great laid back day last Saturday and I think have hit that comfortable stage...you know, not quite so formal about dates etc. 
In one sense it's great, but it also makes things a lot harder to read. 
Anyway, I'm sure my Mom told you guys but Travis and Kathy got to meet him and I think it went well. 
Hopefully, if we're still dating come December, you and Chuck can meet him when you come back to visit. 
I'm planning on dragging him to at least one of the U.T. games, I just have to find out when he wants to go (as well as properly prepare him for the Scott/Kelley/Parks/Wild Card gang and the full-day affair that is a U.T. game). 
Things in Houston are good and definitely warm. 
I went with Emily and her Mom last night to see the musical "Rent" and it was wonderful. 
Also, I'm going out to San Diego for the Labor Day weekend to visit Hoot's daughter Julie. 
Needless to say I am very excited. 
Talk to you guys soon, 
Susan 
Hey girlie, 
How are you doing? 
Haven't heard from you in a while. 
A little birdie told me that you were checking into tickets for Seoul. 
Are you really? 
Would you come with your parents or separately? 
In any case, we have had some more time to do some exploring (and shopping), so we have some good ideas about what to do if you come. 
I think that we will stay in Korea when your parents come and do the whole base thing (which will take only a few minutes, actually), but are considering going to China or somewhere during part of Thanksgiving. 
We'll do whatever you want want if you still are coming! 
Let us know the latest with Ted and also with what's going on in Houston. 
Take care, 
Chris 
__________________________________________________ 
Do You Yahoo!? 
Send instant messages & get email alerts with Yahoo! Messenger. 
http://im.yahoo.com/ 
Hey Tonto (a.k.a - the trusty, but silent, side-kick to the Lone Ranger or in this case the Big D) 
The play was very good and I think well received. 
I'd forgotten how blown away I was by some of the songs the first time I saw it in NY. 
The cast members really have to have incredibly powerful voices to pull off a few of the most poignant numbers ( I think this could be your true calling). 
I caught the third day of Corey's Jeopardy run last night here at the office (yes, I had to come back after the play...I love my job!). 
Anyway, I'm sure I'd mentioned it before but yes she is a very smart girl. 
As a result of that, she has managed on several occasions over the years to detract from my enjoyment of playing Trivial Pursuit or watching Jeopardy by absolutely obliterating me (The girl actually did her senior thesis on Trivia). 
Kori told me she saw you last night at Steak Night and introduced herself since I failed to do so the last time we went. 
I should let you know though that she was very offended this morning that you didn't spell her name right in the email - I mean it's such a common spelling. 
So was Darren there last night to meet her or do you just think they'd make a good match? 
She's a very fun girl. 
Hope you day is going well and that the move to 30 went off without a hitch. 
Good luck with all of the "fun" meetings. 
Shorty 
-- Due to the lack of response yesterday, I'm beginning to worry about your success with the road test...
I'm going to assume that you didn't get around to it. 
Ted Noble 
08/17/2000 10:05 AM 
How was the play? 
I forgot to tell you that I saw your friend on a re-run Jeopardy the other night and I almost called you but it came on at 11:30. 
Smart girl. 
I ran into Corey last night at LWs and I am thinking this is a girl for Darren. 
Anyway, lots of fun meetings today. 
I'll talk to you later. 
Maybe you should ignore the sentiment of the quote I sent earlier...
I think you may be adhering to it too faithfully. 
At this rate we may have to start pinning notes to your shirt to remind you to do things. 
However, having driven with you on several occasions I feel confident you will be able to pass the test with flying colors. 
Keep in mind though that if you end up failing I will not let you forget it (and, as we have established, I have the memory of an elephant). 
I'll keep discussion of me to a minimum and just say that things are well on 32. 
Now back to what's really important...you. 
Thought you'd like to know that the Dixie Chicks are coming back to Houston Dec. 12 and will performing just down the street from you at the Compaq Center...it's all about you and your needs. 
Ted Noble 
08/16/2000 10:56 AM 
AAAAAGGGHHHHHH...
I just found out that I need to take the TX drivers exam both written and on the rode. 
This is a two day process and all because I let my CA license expire. 
I know I need some of your organizational skills. 
I may try to run out and take the test this afternoon while I get moved to 30 (I better not fail it). 
How's life on 32 today -- well that's enough about you let's talk more about me. 
There is no pleasure in having nothing to do; the fun is in having lots to do and not doing it. 
-Mary Little 
Bob Bowen 
07/14/2000 03:58 PM 
Note that the No "Out" version requires us to pay the premium on Tuesday! 
GILBERGD@sullcrom.com 
07/14/2000 02:18 PM 
As we discussed, the following is revised disclosure regarding direct access to deal with the cost issue: 
EnronOnline will assist users, upon request, in arranging for the connection of "T1" lines or other means of direct access to EnronOnline, as an alternative to internet access. 
Direct access connections might enable users to access EnronOnline more quickly than is currently possible through internet access. 
Please call if you want to discuss. 
Have a good weekend. 
This e-mail is sent by a law firm and contains information that may be privileged and confidential. 
If you are not the intended recipient, please delete the e-mail and notify us immediately. 
The least we can do is pass this news along. 
Is there anyone else we should tell? 
Ted Bockius <Ted.Bockius@ivita.com> 
07/17/2000 02:21 PM 
fyi... it sound like Bobby is in serious condition. 
Thanks, 
Sharon 
I think they'll send us another update once he's out of emergency and into a room.? 
Then it's real easy to call Ben Taub to find out a room number.? The address is below.? 
It doesn't sound like he can receive visitors yet. 
A. 
Thanks for the heads up.? 
Do you know the address to send cards?? 
Do you know if Bobby can see visitors?? 
Some of the folks here would like to know. 
Thanks, 
Sharon 
Thought you might like to know. 
Amy Cornell Compaq CPCG Marketing P: 281-518-9526 F: 281-518-1081 amy.cornell@compaq.com < mailto:amy.cornell@compaq.com <mailto:amy.cornell@compaq.com> > 
Jann, phoned this morning and asked me to pass this information to the group, concerning Bobby Riggins. 
Bobby is a member of a bicycle team, while cycling this weekend, he and other members of his team were injured by a truck.? 
There was one death in the injured group and the others with major injuries.? 
Bobby is one of those with major injuries.? 
He is currently in the emergency room at Ben Taub Hospital.? 
Ben Taub hospital is located at 1504 Taub Loop, Houston, Texas, phone number: 713-793-2000.? 
He cannot accept calls, visits or flowers at this time, since he is in the emergency room.? 
An update will be e-mailed, as soon as one is available. 
Keep Bobby, his team members and their families in your prayers. 
Rosario Gonzales Administrative Assistant ESSG CCA-15, 150301, 153B09 281-514-3183 rosario.gonzales@compaq.com < mailto:rosario.gonzales@compaq.com <mailto:rosario.gonzales@compaq.com> > 
I think it's a good idea since the provisional application is on file - Travis is the internal lawyer who has taken care of the patent application so he will have better ideas for where the words should be placed and appropriate look and feel (I would guess near the copyright notice and roughly equivalent size). 
David Forster@ENRON 
07/17/2000 06:15 PM 
Mark, 
We are thinking of adding a Patent Pending message to key EnronOnline pages (like the homepage). 
Can you offer comments/concerns/guidelines? 
Dave 
Does it make sense for us to set up a meeting with you participating from Buenos Aires? 
I'm not sure we have much to tell them at this stage - actually, I'm sure I don't have anything new to report but if you do that would be fine with me. 
Patrick Hansen@ENRON 
07/17/2000 04:28 PM 
Michael and myself are planing to be in Hoston on Thursday and Friday of this week. 
We intend to see as many people as possible regarding EOL implementation. 
We will meet Dave Forster and his team among others. 
We would like to fit a meeting with you as a group or individually. 
Please let me know about your availability and if it is possible to meet with more than one of you in one place. 
Thank you 
FYI 
David Forster@ENRON 
07/17/2000 02:34 PM 
Further background: 
Argentina intend to press ahead even given the concern about taxes, etc. 
They wish to launch on Sept. 1 - meaning we will need to be sending mailings sometime around mid-August. 
Dave 
Leonardo Pacheco 
07/17/2000 08:50 AM 
Mark, 
Just wanted to know were we stand on the ETA and PA for Argentina? 
Thanks for your help! 
Leonardo Pacheco ext. 39938 
If you need more, there is a proposal from the documentation committee for a new alternative for calculating termination amounts (we heard about it in Amsterdam) that I think will be particularly attractive to the energy markets. 
I don't know where this stands officially (I haven't heard any developments since Amsterdam) but I can find out from Bob Pickle if you want. 
Mark E Haedicke 
07/18/2000 08:58 AM 
We should include ISDA energy definitions, CFTC matters re energy and an overview of power deregulation developments in North America. 
I might also add a few items about international developments and the EEI physical power trading form. 
I am thinking 4 slides at the most. 
Is that what you want? 
Mark 
Current Plan: 
Days away: Sept. 21 through Oct. 3 (assuming you work on the day we leave and go back to work the day after we return) 
9 work days 
Wed. Sept. 20 - Leave Houston around 6:00 pm 
Thur. Sept. 21 - Arrv. London early a.m., transfer to flight to Nice 
- Arrv. Nice around noon? 
rent car & drive to first hotel (less than 1 hour away); collapse 
Fri. Sept. 22 - Stay in same hotel, visit Monaco, Nice? 
Sat. Sept. 23 - Drive to St. Tropez - through Nice , Cannes & other coastal towns, check-in mid afternoon 
Sun. Sept. 24 - St. Tropez 
Mon. Sept. 25 - St. Tropez 
Tue. Sept. 26 - Drive to Nice, return car, fly to Paris 
Wed. Sept. 27 - Paris 
Thur. Sept. 28 - Paris (Versailles or Fontainbleu - half day side trip) 
Fri. Sept. 29 - Paris (Giverny - Monet's gardens - 3/4 day side trip) 
Sat. Sept. 30 - Paris 
Sun. Oct. 1 - Paris to London in afternoon - probably by Eurostar train - (arrv. London late afternoon) 
Mon. Oct. 2 - London (meetings for CLH) 
Tues. Oct. 3 - Fly London to Houston (lv. around noon, arrv. around 4:30pm) 
To make matters even more confusing, there are two Mark Taylors. 
I believe the message you forwarded to me belongs to the Mark Taylor at EI (based in London). 
Unfortunately, I can't forward your message to him directly (there seems to be a problem with the attachment). 
If you still have it, can you send it to him at "Mark EI.London Taylor"? 
I will take care of it. 
Thanks for the reminder. 
Ladies, 
Enclosed is a worksheet for Ineos Acrylics. 
Ineos is an English company which has a majority of its operations in the US. 
Note that the credit thresholds are in US$, but the MACS are designated in British Pounds. 
Please send the draft to Troy Black and he will forward to the CP. 
Please deliver a copy to me as well. 
Have a great weekend. 
Max 
<< File: Ineos.xls >> 
Robbi: 
I left you a voice mail on Friday. 
I looked at the UEComm Master and had some comments--such as our name is wrong, the cross default threshold for us should be US $ and not AUD, and there were a few other questions I had. 
Marie 
Hi, 
Attached are Uecomm's final comments to the Master Agreement. 
John Suttle has OK'd Anthony's latest request w/r.t. the CSA. 
Could you please send an executable version of the contract to Fred, David, John and me tomorrow? 
If they're OK with it, we'd like to execute it as soon as possible unless there are any objections. 
Thanks 
Pat 
Pat, 
Please find attached the Enron Master Agreement. 
I have inserted the company details of Uecomm as requested. 
I have also amended the timeframes in the Credit Support Annex to 10 days instead of 2 days. 
(Clauses 2 & 3). 
I have tracked all changes for ease of reference. 
If these amendmnets are agreeable to you can you please print and arrange for execution. 
If you have any questions please do not hesitate to give me a call. 
Regards, 
Anthony Sill Legal Counsel Uecomm Limited 126 Trenerry Crescent Abbotsford, VIC 3067. Ph. (03) 9221 4101 Fax.(03) 9221 4193 Mob. 0417 575 920 
<<Enron - UC Master Agreement - 0308.doc>> 
Turn up your sound a bit. 
Reminder: 
Conference Call with ConEd at 1:00 today in Sara's office - EB3801A. 
Nick: 
Attached for your further handling is the draft form Deemed ISDA between ENA and Ispat Mexicana S.A. de C.V. 
Please note that the economic provisions have been omitted. 
Please let me know if you have any questions or need anything else. 
Marie x33907 
Tana: 
Here's info on the Elliotts. 
Marie 
CONGRATULATIONS!!!!!!! 
We've been asking everyday if anyone had heard if the "Babies Elliott" had arrived. 
Glad to hear that they are all healthy and were a good size, and that Mom is doing well. 
Look forward to seeing pictures of the little ones. 
I know you all are going to have so much fun with them. 
Hope you've been storing up sleep, cause it looks like you won't be getting much for a while. 
Again, congratulations. 
These three little ones don't realize how lucky they are to have such a nice Dad, but I'm sure they'll find out soon. 
Take care 
Marie 
Ladies and gentlemen, 
This is just to let you know that Emma gave birth at week 34 on Friday, 6th July, to our triplets: 
Benjamin James - at 12.45 pm - 3 lbs 4 ozs 
Toby William - 12.46 pm - 4 lbs 
Hannah May - 12.48 pm - 3 lbs 15 ozs. 
Although small, they are all "fully functioning" and very well - they are in the lowest level of special care (and they will probably be in there for another two to four weeks) until they can feed properly and maintain their weights. 
Emma is fine, too - very well!! 
All the best and kind regards 
Mark 
OOPS! 
Attached are the fax cover pages for each of the Nylon and Polykron Deemed ISDAs I just sent you. 
Marie 
Rebecca: 
I am attaching a clean and blacklined version of the proposed resolutions authorizing the opening of brokerage accounts. 
I have attempted to revise them to make them clearer. 
Perhaps Jim Armogida can assist in revising them as I am sure he is more familiar with the way Enron Corp. likes their resolutions drafted than we are. 
Let me know if you have any questions or need anything else. 
Marie x33907 
Turn up your sound a bit. 
Hi, Liz: 
Thanks! 
Marie 
Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist 
Ms. Marquez: 
I am following up regarding the status of our comments to the form of guaranty for Pemex that you provided to Lucy Ortiz. 
Please do not hesitate to contact either Francisco Pinto-Leite or me with any questions or comments. 
We look forward to hearing your comments. 
Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist 
Ms. Marquez: 
Attached are an original and blacklined copy of your form of guaranty, which reflect our comments. 
Please do not hesitate to contact either Francisco Pinto-Leite, Senior Counsel (713/345-7942; francisco.pinto.leite@enron.com) or me with any questions or comments. 
Thank you for your assistance. 
Marie Heard Senior Legal Specialist 
Tanya: 
I received this draft from Niagara Mohawk Marketing, Inc. for our review. 
Will you pass along to the appropriate person? 
Thanks! 
Marie 
Marie - 
per our conversation yesterday afternoon, attached are proposed drafts of the Schedule and the Para. 13 relative to the above. 
Having spoken with Dennis Goldmann, I am advised that there are currently 2 Guaranties in place in the sum of $8M each: one by Niagara Mohawk Holdings Inc f/b/o Enron, and one by Enron Inc. f/b/o Niagara Mohawk Energy Marketing. 
I am told that our respective credit departments want to raise the credit lines to $10M for each party, but to effect that we will have to modify the existing Guaranties accordingly. 
Let me know if this is your understanding, as well. 
After you have had the chance to review the attached, please send me a marked-up draft and we can discuss our concerns from there. 
Should you have any questions, feel free to call me. 
I can be reached at 315-460-3344. 
Any credit concerns can be discussed with Dennis Goldmann, who can be reached at 315-460-3349. 
I look forward to hearing from you. 
Patty Snyder 
(See attached file: ENRON - SCHEDULE(nmemdrft8-7-01).doc)(See attached file: ENRON - Para13(nmemdrft8-7-01).doc) 
- ENRON - SCHEDULE(nmemdrft8-7-01).doc 
- ENRON - Para13(nmemdrft8-7-01).doc 
Hi Marie 
Did you get a chance to find those GTC's for ENA that you can forward this way? 
Thanks, I know you are busy. 
Tracy 
Jeff: 
Attached are the draft Schedule to the ISDA Master Agreement, together with Paragraph 13 to the ISDA Credit Support Annex. 
I am putting the credit worksheet on the fax machine to you as soon as I send this message. 
Let me know if you have any questions or need anything else. 
Marie x33907 
Hi everyone, 
I just got of the phone with Hai and he told me how to make an adjustment on a day to day basis in regards to incorrect liquidations but he also explained this is just to make the daily P&L #'s right, if nothing were done the month end P&L would still somehow work out because adjustments would be made. 
Does this mean that for June and for a certain portion of July we should not do anything and just make adjustments on a going forward basis (and assume everything will work out at month end)? 
If this is the case I would like someone to walk me through June to see if the numbers did really work themselves out as there was a large swing in second order on June 29 that was not adjusted for. 
Let me know if one of you could help me do this. 
Karim. 
Evidently, this a problem that Stacey White has been aware of for a couple of months now. 
There was a change made in the coding for the delta position and this has somehow messed up the liq value. 
John 
John, Karim, 
I'm now looking closely at the option liquidation problems. 
I believe that there might be a sign-flipping problem for PUTS that 's causing this whole issue. 
I'll keep you posted. 
Karim - this's likely the explanation to your other question... 
I'll get back to you as soon as I have more info (hopefully later today) 
Marcelo L. Meira Sr IT Developer Enron Networks - Houston, TX (713) 345-3436 
The post id I am looking at for Calgary is 11608. 
I am looking at the option liquidation report and all of the $65 puts are in the money and the $75 call is also in the money. 
Shouldn't all the liquidation values from the beginning of the month be a negative (representing positive liquidation) for the puts? 
The liq value for the call is CORRECT. 
John 
Karim, 
I don't want to wait till month end, let's adjust the numbers now and for the June 29 2nd order, lets take that value into June since it relates to July puts. 
Hi everyone, 
I just got of the phone with Hai and he told me how to make an adjustment on a day to day basis in regards to incorrect liquidations but he also explained this is just to make the daily P&L #'s right, if nothing were done the month end P&L would still somehow work out because adjustments would be made. 
Does this mean that for June and for a certain portion of July we should not do anything and just make adjustments on a going forward basis (and assume everything will work out at month end)? 
If this is the case I would like someone to walk me through June to see if the numbers did really work themselves out as there was a large swing in second order on June 29 that was not adjusted for. 
Let me know if one of you could help me do this. 
Karim. 
Evidently, this a problem that Stacey White has been aware of for a couple of months now. 
There was a change made in the coding for the delta position and this has somehow messed up the liq value. 
John 
John, Karim, 
I'm now looking closely at the option liquidation problems. 
I believe that there might be a sign-flipping problem for PUTS that 's causing this whole issue. 
I'll keep you posted. 
Karim - this's likely the explanation to your other question... 
I'll get back to you as soon as I have more info (hopefully later today) 
Marcelo L. Meira Sr IT Developer Enron Networks - Houston, TX (713) 345-3436 
The post id I am looking at for Calgary is 11608. 
I am looking at the option liquidation report and all of the $65 puts are in the money and the $75 call is also in the money. 
Shouldn't all the liquidation values from the beginning of the month be a negative (representing positive liquidation) for the puts? 
The liq value for the call is CORRECT. 
John 
unable to attend at that time due to a prior appointment, I can meet with you individually later some time 
OK, now that I've got your attention - I really am offering free lunch! 
I would like to informally get together with you on Wednesday, July 18 at 11:45 am - 1:00 pm (max) to talk about your recruiting experience with Enron Canada. 
We're gearing up for our 2001/02 recruiting campaign and we think your experience will help us define what works best and what can be improved in our process. 
For those of you in Toronto, I apologize for not being able to schedule this over your lunch time! 
However, if you can wait til 2:00pm to eat, go ahead and grab something and expense it! 
We'll hook you guys in by videoconference. 
I've booked Videoconference Room # 1. 
Please let me know whether or not you can attend so I can order enough food. 
Thanks!! 
should be ok 
Kindly confirm your availability to attend an Analyst and Associate Recruiting Meeting scheduled for Thursday, July 26th at 2:00 p.m. (4:00 p.m. Toronto time). 
This meeting should not take more than one hour. 
The Toronto office will be video conferenced in. 
Regards, 
Nella 
Lets try before Fri, as I am planning to take that day off 
Attached is the revised draft paper that reflects our conference call with Bob Fagan earlier this week. 
I propose we have a conference call with Bob Fagan on Fri July 20 at 1:00 pm Calgary time to discuss any areas of concern/confusion you may have. 
Also, would those of you who have not responded to me via email confirming your acceptance of the terms upon which our four companies have agreed to assume cost responsibility for the TCA work on this. 
Attached is the letter I originally sent to you on May 10 in this regard. 
<< File: Tabors Conflict Letter Alberta Export 050901.doc >> 
Regards, 
Rob 
Rob, 
This draft reflects the changes we discussed during our call the other day. 
I've also included a redlined draft showing changes. 
Regards, 
Bob 
<<Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 .doc>> 
<<Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 redlined .doc>> 
- Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 .doc << File: Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 .doc >> 
- Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 redlined .doc << File: Alberta Transmission Access and Pricing Analysis_0712 redlined .doc >> 
NO 
Hi John, 
With reference to Article 5, section 5.1 (b), are we going to propose an alternative planned outage to TAU for next year? 
Thanks, 
Mike 
"Katie Kaplan" <kaplan@iepa.com> 
10/27/2000 06:20 PM 
Please respond to kaplan 
Greetings: 
IEP will be hosting a dinner for California Governor Gray Davis on Thursday, December 7, 2000 at the historic Julia Morgan House in Sacramento. 
We will be targeting to raise at least $100,000 so company contributions will range from $10,000-$20,000 per person ($10k minimum per person) depending on the number of respondents. 
We have already received firm commitments from 3 companies. 
If you are interested in attending please e-mail me as soon as possible. 
A formal invitation will follow to those who respond. 
We need responses or direction by no later than COB on Monday, October 30, 2000. 
Please contact me with any questions. 
Thank you, 
Katie Kaplan Manager of Policy IEP (916) 448-9499 
Congratulations. 
Everyone is extremely pleased that you're joining. 
Best of luck and very much looking forward to working together. 
Best, 
Jeff 
I'll believe it when I see it. 
Seems like a good idea to keep the heat on Hoecker & Co.right up until Nov. 1. 
Thanks. 
I'm glad they want to follow-up with Steve (I've been pushing it) and I've got some follow-up as well based on chats I had in the afternoon on Friday with folks post-call. 
Let's regroup on Monday. 
I'll be in Portland but can call you. 
Best, 
Jeff 
Jeremy Meier <jermeier@earthlink.net> 
10/29/2000 11:48 AM 
Jeff: 
FYI, we had an instructive rest of the conference call on Friday with Sue and Robbie et al. 
They indicated they could use Steve's help face to face at some point. 
We are following up with Sue and Robbie on a couple legal issues, case law and MSA self-certification language, and let me know if you have additional items. 
We await approval on the final tariff language and can then file at the CPUC. 
Let me know what schedule works for you. 
Also, can you confirm the correct names, email addresses, titles for those new folks on Friday's call: Robbie Rossi, Michelle, Melissa Lloyd? 
Thanks. 
Jeremy Meier Blumenfeld & Cohen 
Attached for your review are draft talking points for the Cal Energy Markets conference I'm speaking at on Thursday in SF. 
All comments, suggestions, etc. are appreciated. 
Thanks. 
Yes, I would like to participate. 
Thanks. 
thanks a million. 
talk to you then. 
Lara Leibman@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 
10/31/2000 03:48 PM 
Here's the info for calling in -- thanks! 
Lara 
Angie Buis 
10/31/00 02:17 PM 
The call-in number and instructions for the 11/2 8:30 a.m. meeting are as follows: 
Everyone will dial the toll free number 1-877-331-6867. 
All the outside participants will be prompted to enter their access code, which is 600-480. 
Wayne, your access code (room 4434) after dialing the toll free number will be 857-771. 
I have asked for 4 outside ports and should anyone else need to join in, they may do so with the access code and without operator assistance. 
The duration of the call is 3.5 hours. 
The call will terminate once everyone has hung up. 
Please let me know if any of you need additional information. 
Thanks. 
Angie Buis EBS-Tax x-37097 
Attached for your review are copies of the settlement documents that were filed today in the Gas Industry Restructuring/Natural Gas Strategy proceeding, including the Motion for Approval of the Comprehensive Settlement that is supported by thirty signatories to the Comprehensive Settlement, the Comprehensive Settlement document itself, and the various appendices to the settlement.? 
Because a number of the declarations and signature pages are not yet available electronically, they have not been included with this note.? 
Hard copies of the Comprehensive Settlement, including all declarations and signature pages, are being shipped tonight via US mail to all parties on the service list.? 
Additional printed copies should be available within the next day or so and I will make them available to all of you - just let me know how many copies you need. 
I would like to thank all of the parties who participated in this settlement process.? 
You have all devoted considerable time, resources and spirit in the preparation of this document - and it shows.? 
We now have a settlement before the Commission that includes ratepayer advocates, commercial and industrial customers, electric generators, marketers, shippers, independent storage providers,? gas suppliers,? producers, utilities, aggregators, pipeline companies, wholesale customers, municipalities, and retail mass marketers, among others.? 
While we should be proud of our accomplishment, we now must turn to the task of getting our testimony ready by May 5 deadline.? 
Assignments have already been made and I will schedule a conference call later this week to discuss related details.? 
So much for resting on our laurels.? 
Once again, thank you all for an outstanding accomplishment. 
<<ld2d-#69366-1.DOC>> <<ld2d-#69345-1.DOC>> ? <<ld2d-#69397-1.DOC>> <<ld2d-#69396-1.DOC>> <<ld2d-#69377-1.XLS>> <<ld2d-#69381-1.DOC>> <<ld2d-#69366-1.DOC>> <<ld2d-#69336-1.XLS>> <<Primary Rights 4-12 .doc>> <<ld2d-#69334-1.DOC>> <<ld2d-#69345-1.DOC>> 
- ld2d-#69366-1.DOC 
- ld2d-#69345-1.DOC 
- ld2d-#69397-1.DOC 
- ld2d-#69396-1.DOC 
- ld2d-#69377-1.XLS 
- ld2d-#69381-1.DOC 
- ld2d-#69366-1.DOC 
- ld2d-#69336-1.XLS 
- Primary Rights 4-12 .doc 
- ld2d-#69334-1.DOC 
- ld2d-#69345-1.DOC 
Severin Borenstein 
E.T. Grether Professor of Business Administration and Public Policy Director Haas School of Business U.C. Energy Institute University of California 2539 Channing Way Berkeley, CA 94720-1900 Berkeley, CA 94720-5180 (p) 510-642-3689 (p) 510-642-5145 (f) 707-885-2508 http://www.ucei.berkeley.edu/ucei Email: borenste@haas.berkeley.edu WWW: http://haas.berkeley.edu/~borenste 
Attached is a rough draft of my talking points for a panel I'll be on at a CEM conference in SF on Thursday afternoon. 
Have distributed to Western GA team (plus Steffes) for comment and thought you may have some, too. 
Topic for panel, "PUC Priorities." 
Goal is to (politely?) refute Loretta Lynch's and Carl Woods' continued assertions that 1) California's move to deregulate was based solely on ideology with no basis in fact and 2) the solution is to turn back the clock to command-and-control regulation. 
The FERC order tomorrow is likely to alter the points somewhat. 
Comments are much appreciated. 
Best, 
Jeff 
Chris: 
As we discussed yesterday, Laird and I spoke and we think that the presentation is good to go for Thursday. 
We'll need to update the numbers for the offer we made to S.D. last week. 
You had mentioned that you might want to include a shaped product. 
You still considering it? 
Let us know and we can add it, and make any other changes you'd like to make at this end. 
My flight gets into S.D. at at 8:35 on southwest. 
Best, 
Jeff 
Sandi sez it's actually happening at 10 AM and it's renewable-focused. 
David Forster 
03/08/2000 09:45 AM 
Fyi 
Dear Justin 
Marly asked me to respond to you. 
As you know, the suffix ONLINE is purely descriptive and now used by many companies. 
Therefore, any trade mark registration that incorporates the word ONLINE as a suffix in the way that you use it will not enable its owner to prevent others from using the word ONLINE. 
Given the above, if you have adequate protection for the word ENRON (which covers the services that you offer on-line as well as your core activities), I'd say that another application for the words ENRON ONLINE is probably unnecessary. 
However, if you use a particular logo for the on-line service, that should be registered. 
I hope the above is clear. 
Jonathan Day 
Marly, 
If you could respond to me on this request, thanks 
Justin 
Paul Goddard 
08/03/2000 11:35 
Can one of you give me a quick call to discuss . 
I'm @ X37047. 
Thanks. 
I believe we are to some extent already protected with "Enron" proceeded with anything, but EnronOnline(TM) , etc. just affords us more protection. 
I assume this is akin to why McDonald's trademarks "Mc"Everything? 
David Forster 
08/03/2000 01:50 
Paul, 
Can you please give me a call to discuss trademarking? 
i.e. Are we covered if we proceed a word with "Enron"? 
e.g.: EnronEAuction. 
If we are covered, then was it necessary to register EnronOnline? 
Thanks, 
Dave 
____________________________________________________________ 
This message is confidential. 
It may also be privileged or otherwise protected by work product immunity or other legal rules. 
If you have received it by mistake please let us know by reply and then delete it from your system; you should not copy the message or disclose its contents to anyone. 
____________________________________________________________ 
Per my conversation with Edmund this morning, we are moving the following countries to the non-approved list: Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Singapore, and Slovenia. 
Below is the list, now updated to reflect this change. 
Jurisdictions which are are approved to trade credit derivatives: Finland, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the U.K, and the U.S.. 
Jurisdictions which are not approved to trade credit derivatives include: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Gibraltar, Ireland, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Scotland, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, and The Netherlands. 
For banks incorporated in a non-approved jurisdiction, it may be possible for them to trade out of a branch located in an approved jurisdiction (i.e. U.S. and U.K. branches). 
This would have to be determined on a case by case basis. 
Please let me know if there are any changes to this list. 
Sent by: Nella Cappelletto 
Yes, we should add compliance with OTC Derivatives and/or Commodity Contracts and Qualified Party requirements of the Securities Act (Alberta), Securities Act (British Columbia) and Securities Act (Ontario). 
Thanks, 
Peter 
With regard to our annual review of this list of laws we need to comply with, do we not want to add the Canadian provinces new "eligible swap participant" equivalant rules? 
Molly Harris 
03/08/2000 05:37 PM 
Please find attached Credit's EOL responses for 3/8/00. 
Regards 
Molly 
You are the best! 
Why does it always have to be my deals...?!!! 
We've received a personal invitation to a NYMEX Crawfish Boil on April 3 at 5:00 at Garden in the Heights at 3926 Feagan. 
The cause of this celebration is the 10th anniversary of the Nat Gas futures contract. 
It would be nice if Shankman and John Arnold could attend. 
Perhaps you can give them a personal invitation... 
We have received the amendment to the BC Gas ISDA Master executed by BC Gas, which adds the Canadian Securities Representation, so we don't have to add the rep into every confirm. 
BC Gas won't sign the confirms with the rep in, and this has caused much difficulties. 
I am going to count it as signed, since BC Gas has signed, but we still need it to be signed by ECC. 
Can you get it signed ASAP and back to me. 
Much thanks. 
We have received the executed Amendment to the Subscription Agreement with WeatherTrade, Inc. dated March 2, 2000. 
This Amendment amends the Transaction Fee referenced in subparagraph (c) of the Fee Schedule to the Subscription Agreement. 
Copies will be distributed. 
Updating another blue file because Susan B., this time, has not updated it to reference mergers & name changes! 
It appears you missed some cpys on the referenced list because Tom had the freeze panel button on, and you probably didn't see them at first. 
I didn't either until I clicked on the down button and they popped up. 
When you have a minute, I'll give me a call and I'll come around and show you how to unfreeze the panel. 
I spoke to Edmund to get the scoop on what we are going to be doing on the confirms for Credit Derivatives, and he said that his current understanding is that all of the confirms will be done out of London. 
I communicated that to Bob Bowen. 
He also said that London was going to be hiring 120 people to deal with the Credit Derivatives business. 
Wow! 
Carol, will you handle this or Mark? 
Tori Kuykendall 
03/09/2000 03:51 PM 
hi mark - 
i'm a gas trader on the west desk and one of my customers had some issues with our electronic trading agreement. 
the company is Arco Products, adn their comments are on the attached file. 
could you take a look at this and give me an update. 
thanks. 
Torrey, as promised I have attached ARCO's suggested revisions to the Enron online trading agreement. 
I look forward to working toward a mutually satisfactory agreement in this new and thorny area of e-commerce contracting. 
Dave 
(See attached file: ETA_revision0307.doc) 
- ETA_revision0307.doc 
We have received the executed First Amendment to ISDA Master Agreement dated as of December 1, 1999. 
This amendment adds the British Columbia Securities Act representation to the master. 
Copies will be distributed. 
Confirmation Desk: you can stop adding the rep to the confirms now. 
Molly Harris 
03/09/2000 05:39 PM 
Please find attached Credit's EOL responses for 3/9/00. 
Regards, 
Molly 
Here's the list with the missing counterparties. 
Molly Harris 
03/08/2000 05:37 PM 
Please find attached Credit's EOL responses for 3/8/00. 
Regards 
Molly 
Yeah! 
Probably... 
I just got a call from Dave and Frank and they tell me I have a whole week this time to approve the whole counterparty list to trade Australian financial power. 
I'll need to talk to you about his Monday. 
Hey guys, take Monday off! 
Molly Harris 
03/10/2000 04:28 PM 
Please note Credit has no EOL responses for 3/10/00. 
Regards 
Molly 
Mike Jordan 
04/04/2001 09:27 AM 
Please find attached the most recent update for Merchanting Metals. 
In summary the planned systems changes and manual substantiation efforts are behind schedule. 
Additional resources are being allocated and the situation is being closely monitored ( both for quarter end signoff and on going operations ). 
Please contact me if you require any additional information 
Mike 
Mike Jordan 
03/04/2001 16:29 
The intention of the efforts and actions documented in my earlier update ( see attached email ) was to provide a robust position signoff process for total metal tonnage, spread and brand and location a timely substantiation of stock on balance sheet forward MTM debtors and creditor balances OBSF transactional values and a reconciliation of the barclays intercompany account 
Despite the best efforts of IT, continuing problems with the AS400 application, a better understanding of the inconsistency between stock reconciliation reports, and concerns over the useability of the outright stock screen enquiry are such that I am currently not confident of delivering sufficient accurate information to AA to satisfy their audit requirements - which at a macro level is the transparent audit trail between stock and forward positions to full accounting values. 
Consequently I need to inform you of, and/or require your approval for, the following : 
I will discuss with AA the following 
that OBSF values within the extended trial balance may be misstated due to data issues ( above and beyond existing conversations with AA on model simplifications) 
that there are reconciling differences between trader position analyses, AS400 on screen enquiries and the formal global position report ( these differences are at present not understood but would need to be provided to AA within the audit timetable) 
an outline of the internal balance sheet review process described in my earlier note which must now be reprioritised and rescoped ( see MO work ) 
The creation of an incentive payment pool ( possibly via personal best awards ) for key Metals staff who continue to work exceptionally unsociable hours to meet the above stated objectives 
The signoff for additional permanent 'Enron' headcount who will 'duplicate' certain key position control processes ultimately replacing some existing Traffic staff 
A reconciling difference of $15mm exists between the reported DPR and the final accounting p&l as generated on the AS400. 
We will continue to investigate potential misstatements in the system p&l, as a result of data or system valuation problems, within the month end reporting timeframe. 
However, this difference may need to be adjusted for following a final review and signoff of system p&l values with traders. 
The recall of all OBSF stock in early April and retention on balance sheet ( reduced where economically viable ) until positions are fully reconciled and repeatable daily signoff process can be instigated. 
Middle Office work being prioritised is as follows 
the stock circularisation initiated for close of business 23rd - with full reconciliation of returns to current system data by traffic/co-ordination an audit of the stock and forward valuation report for the 30th ( replacing planned 23rd review due to system issues ), requiring full download of contract detail for later reference 
reconciliation of stock movements between 23rd and 30th sample tests of vanilla forward transactions 
detailed position analysis of all OBSF contracts that must be reconciled to Barclays documentation 
spreadsheet recalculation of OBSF option premium utilising the above manually created position analysis 
the circularisation of Barclays intercompany account and comparison to our cut off and substantiation analysis 
the debtors/creditors partial circularisation initiated for close of business 23rd 
I will be in touch directly re the items needing approval 
Regards 
Mike 
Mike Jordan 
21/03/2001 18:20 
Several related issues have resulted in an increase in the level of operating risk for the Merchanting Metals business. 
Complexities surrounding the operation of the Off Balance Sheet Facility ("OBSF") which commenced two weeks before the year end. 
The uncertainty generated by the revocation of AA's signoff for the facility late in the year end audit. 
The discovery of a number of 'bugs' within the AS400 Merchanting code, arising from the release of OBSF designed functionality, which compounded the operational burden of supporting the OBSF. 
The requirement to amend the operational process and OBSF IT code as a result of the current renegotiation of the OBSF with Barclays ( and AA ). 
The senior IT developer for Merchanting has resigned and been sent on gardening leave. 
The Corporate requirement to lower working capital usage for the Merchanting business irrespective of the above parochial business issues. 
Various mitigating actions have been and will be taken to provide focus, gain comfort over control levels and to provide assurance to senior management as to the accuracy of the Q1 DPR and business balance sheet. 
The implementation for SAP for the Merchanting business has been delayed and effectively decoupled from the higher risk ( higher benefit ) Brokerage implementation - benefit is to provide sole focus on OBSF for IT Merchanting developers. 
The AR/AP SAP data quality reviews for both businesses are continuing so as to provide a detailed analysis as at end Q1. 
Middle Office have instigated a new daily working capital report process tracking cash settlement/ funding data to working capital components for all Metals businesses. 
An enhanced position signoff process will be implemented prior to end Q1 covering gross tonnage, spread positions and summarised analyses for brand and locations. 
The necessary report functionality should be available within the AS400, however contingencies have been initiated to build tactical VBA/excel reports outside of the AS400 but using AS400 data downloads. 
User requests for additional AS400 functionality and reports have been aggressively prioritised and a code freeze will commence prior to the end of Q1 following the delivery of three reports determined as minimum requirements for the support of OBSF. 
A resubstantiation of the full Q1 DPR will be completed by the Risk control staff reconciling the full trial balances between Q1 open and Q1 close 
A full internal balance sheet review will be completed within the Q1 audit timetable which incorporates 
A full circularisation of inventory balances, and matching to source documentation within Enron 
Inspection of certain of the above inventory balances, by third party inspectors, where there is an expectation that circularisation replies will not be received on a timely basis 
Substantive checks back to source contract documentation for the forward priced and unpriced positions report ( spot checking the key position report signed off by the traders ) 
Full reconciliation and recalculation of OBSF option premium values 
Full reconciliation of contracts within the OBSF to Barclays documentation ( thereby substantiating existence of stock that we have option to purchase ) and to AS400 Barclays account 
A risk based debtors review - matching to source documentation, where applicable, and any subsequent post quarter end cash movements 
A full substantiation of creditors to internal ( contract commitments ) or external documentation ( invoices/request for payment ) 
A full reconciliation of intercompany accounts 
A full substantive reconciliation of cash and funding accounts 
I intend to provide weekly updates on the status of the above actions during April 
If you have any questions please call me on x34703 
Regards 
Mike 
Dr. Harris: 
I would like to thank you for personally taking the time to closely review my application. 
Though I am disappointed with the results I am still determined to attend The TEXAS Graduate School of Business next year. 
I understand how competitive the process has become, but I felt that with my work experiences, recommendations, personality, extracurricular activities, etc. that this would compensate for my disability. 
After talking with Professors Titman, Ronn, Brown and Jemison, I was sure that the School was the right place to get the education I was looking for. 
I am still certain that the School is the best place for getting a great graduate-level education, so I want you to know that I am going to do whatever it takes to get in next year. 
I plan on taking two or three graduate level finance courses at the University of Houston this Summer and Fall to demonstrate to the Admissions committee that I can compete at the graduate level. 
I also plan on retaking the GMAT test. 
Due to my disability, this will be a monumental task; but I am determined to prove to the Committee that I can be successful at The TEXAS Graduate School of Business. 
I would like to come down to Austin this spring to meet with you to further discuss my application file and to personally meet you. 
If you think of anything else I can do to strengthen my overall application file for next year, please let me know. 
Take care and hope to hear from you soon. 
Sincerely, 
Ben Rogers 
Professor Ronn: 
I would like to thank you for taking the time to recommend me to the MBA Program. 
In the end, the results were not favorable. 
I understand that it is a competitive process, but I felt that with my work experiences, recommendations, extracurricular activities, etc., that this would help my chances and possibly compensate for my disability. 
After talking with you and Professors Titman, Brown and Jemison, I was sure that UT was the right place to continue learning about energy-finance. 
I am still sure that UT is the place for getting an excellent graduate-level education, so I want you to know that I am going to do whatever it takes to get in next year. 
I plan on taking two or three graduate level finance courses at the University of Houston this Summer and Fall to demonstrate to the Admissions office that I can compete at this level. 
I also plan on trying to retake the GMAT test. 
Due to my disability, this will be a monumental task, but I am determined to prove to the Admissions commitee that I can excel with the work at The Texas University Graduate School of Business. 
Thanks again for taking the time to listen and talk with me. 
It has been a pleasure meeting you and I hope we can continue to talk about energy and finance in the future. 
Also, if you can think of anything else I can do to strengthen my overall application file for next year, please let me know. 
Take care and hope to hear from you soon. 
Sincerely, 
Ben Rogers 
Professor Titman: 
I would like to thank you for taking the time to recommend me to the MBA Program. 
In the end, the results were not favorable. 
I understand that it is a competitive process, but I felt that with my work experiences, recommendations, extrcurricular activities, etc., that this would help my chances and possibly compensate my disability. 
After talking with you and Professors Ronn, Brown and Jemison, I was sure that UT was the right place to continue learning about energy-finance. 
I am still sure that UT is the place for getting an excellent graduate-level education, so I want you to know that I am going to do what ever it takes to get in next year. 
I plan on taking a couple of graduate level finance courses at the University of Houston this Summer and Fall to demonstrate to the Admissions office that I can compete at this level. 
I also plan on trying to retake the GMAT test. 
Due to my disability, this will be a monumental task, but I am determined to prove to the Admissions committment that I can do the work at The Texas University Graduate School of Business. 
Also, I would like to continue our dialague regarding creating an Energy-Finance Private Equity Fund at UT. 
I know that with my industry-wide and investment banking contacts that I can help raise capital for the fund. 
I am very interested in energy-finance and think that your idea is a very good. 
Thanks again for taking the time to listen and talk with me. 
It has been a pleasure to meet with you and I hope we can continue to talk about energy and finance in the future. 
Also, if you think of anything else I can do to strengthen my overall application file for next year, please let me know. 
Take care and hope to hear from you soon. 
Sincerely, 
Ben Rogers 
Let me know if you have any questions. 
Thanks 
Ben 
Sorry about that, I was working on the Teco O&M costs. 
Thanks 
Ben 
Please send me an excel spreadsheet which depicts the value that you see associated with the heat rate spread option. 
I want to make sure that I understand exactly how you propose valuing the transaction and how this value would be booked. 
As such, please provide the following detail: 
Will we be valuing/booking a series of monthly call options or a series of daily call options? 
What power curve are we valuing the deal against - PJM East or West Hub? 
Please send me the current fuel curve that you are converting to $/MWh to value the deal? 
What volatilities are you using to value the options - monthly volatilities or intra-day volatilities or a blend of the two (if blending please show me what formula you using to blend the two vols)? 
What expiration date are you using, i.e.: for monthly call options the 15th of the relevant month, and for daily options? 
What correlation are you assuming, 15% flat for twenty years? 
Are you deducting all operating expenses from the value of the option? 
Are you using the "SPRDOPT" Exotic Options function to value the option? 
Are you using the $/MWh VOM dollar amount as your strike? 
Has Don provided the fixed payment stream? 
This stream should be covering both P&I and not just principal. 
Yvan, and Ben, please provide answers to these question via written correspondence so that their is limited probability of misunderstanding. 
Thank you both very much for your time and help thus far. 
Furthermore, I would like to reiterate that RAC's goal, prior to quoting any credit reserve, is to be 100% confident that: (i) the methodology that is being employed is consistent among the internal groups; and (ii) the inherent value of the price risk management contracts matches. 
This enables RAC to manage the associated risk during the life of the transaction both effectively and appropriately. 
Regards, 
Christopher 
Randy, this is the issue I left you the voice mail on. 
Article 6 of the Gallup Compression Services Agreement (which I am sending to you separately) with ECS obligates ECS to "work in good faith with CDEC" to establish an automated system that would automatically have alerted us to peak loading conditions on CDEC's system. 
We had a pretty good idea when we signed the contract that ECS would not be able to complete that by the contract start date, so we negotiated a fall back plan under which ECS is obligated to "assist [Transwestern] in developing a manual system to accomplish the same result and will hold harmless and keep [Transwestern] whole for all cost and expenses" associated with the manual system. 
We will fight with them about who owes the $200k that James mentions below based on their failure to "assist" us in managing the cost. 
In the mean time, we need to make sure that we are doing everything we can to get a handle on the situation to mitigate future costs. 
Do we have someone who is watching this out there? 
We are running so full tilt on TW that we may not have as much flexibiltiy to manage this situation as we expected, but let me know what we can do. 
James had heard that one hold up was the absence of a confidentiality agreement--I guess between ECS and Transwestern--that would permit ECS to communicate to us the details on how to access teh key info. from CDEC. 
That sounds like a BS excuse from ECS, but it that's what they are saying, let me know and we can figure out a solution. 
Thanks. 
DF 
James Centilli 
12/14/2000 02:49 PM 
Would you please contact Gerald Nemec and review the Gallup Compression Service Contract in respect to the Load Control Management. 
My understanding was that ECS was to provide a means to access CDEC's online profile in order for us to make a decision to avoid running the compressor during CDEC's peak load periods. 
We have not received access to this information which has resulted so far in additional electric cost of $200,987.33 for the period of July through September. 
Additional cost will be incurred for the remainder of this year, that I have not been able to review yet. 
This cost is averaging $79,000 per month if we continue to run the compressor as we have in August and September. 
Good point, but I'm comfortable we're covered because our bidders were all bidding on a chunk of capacity and primary points. 
They are deemed to be on notice that they had alternate point rights (its in the tariff) and if they wanted to submit a bid that had a different rate for primaries and alternates, they could have done so. 
None of them did, and most importantly, the winning bidders did not. 
Our letter agreement simply memorializes that we will charge the same negotiated rate whether the gas flows on primaries or alternates. 
I assume from your message you are OK with this and they can get it nailed down? 
DF 
I just got done looking at the underlying contract language as set forth in the pro forma service agreement in the tariff and it specifically says that the max rate would apply unless a discount or negotiated rate has been agreed to. 
My concern with adding the language below is, could it be argued that not everyone knew the rate would or could apply at any point, since we just stated Topack and Needles and if they knew they might have bid a different rate?? 
Susan Scott 
01/11/2001 02:42 PM 
After discussions with the commercial group I propose that that redlined language be added to the attached Dynegy agreement and to the 4 other negotiated rate agreements we've done. 
If there are any objections you need to get back to me ASAP. 
pls print. 
df 
In discussion with Dave, we thought it would be good to put this together in a format of questions and answers. 
However, as you will see, the questions I thought of got kinda long- but I think we need answers for all of them. 
One thought is to have just the agenda as a couple topics and then lead in with the first two questions as I've listed. 
Please provide me your thoughts asap. 
MK 
whasssup? 
Here it is. 
Thanks. 
DF 
Here is the attachment... 
Attached is my draft of a request for rehearing. 
It incorporates Mr. Stojic's and Mr. Kelly's initial comments. 
Please review it and let me know if you have any comments on or before Tuesday afternoon (I will be out of the office Monday). 
Thank you! 
OK. 
DF 
DENISE LAGESSE 
01/12/2001 10:34 AM 
Please approve Susan's attached expense report and forward to accounting with a cc: to me. 
Thanks! 
Forgot to cc you. 
df 
Drew Fossum 
01/12/2001 04:37 PM 
OK. 
DF 
DENISE LAGESSE 
01/12/2001 10:34 AM 
Please approve Susan's attached expense report and forward to accounting with a cc: to me. 
Thanks! 
Lou, do we have any sort of policy on requests like this? 
Lee Huber made the same request last year and we gave her the chair (she only wanted one, however). 
Norma, any thoughts? 
DENISE LAGESSE 
01/12/2001 01:14 PM 
Susan Scott would like authorization to order an Aeron chair for each of her offices - on 47 and 41. 
This particular chair is designed to help with back problems, which she has. 
Many people at Enron already have this type of chair, but we rarely, if ever, have a surplus because they are so popular. 
The cost is $567.77 per chair plus tax. 
Please approve the purchase of two. 
Thanks! 
sorry, i left lou off of the message. 
Drew Fossum 
01/13/2001 09:45 AM 
Lou, do we have any sort of policy on requests like this? 
Lee Huber made the same request last year and we gave her the chair (she only wanted one, however). 
Norma, any thoughts? 
DENISE LAGESSE 
01/12/2001 01:14 PM 
Susan Scott would like authorization to order an Aeron chair for each of her offices - on 47 and 41. 
This particular chair is designed to help with back problems, which she has. 
Many people at Enron already have this type of chair, but we rarely, if ever, have a surplus because they are so popular. 
The cost is $567.77 per chair plus tax. 
Please approve the purchase of two. 
Thanks! 
I believe you got a copy of the John Sommer letter to producers dated Jan 6 that MKM's spies intercepted. 
She forwarded the Sommer letter to Stan and discussed it with him. 
Dari and I vented our aggravation by drafting the attached letter to Gibson and Kyle complaining of Sommer's duplicity, but after tempers cooled, MKM and I decided not to send it to Stan or urge him to send a written response. 
As it stands, MKM and I will probably bring it up with Sommer in OK City and strongly suggest the importance of coordinated communication to the producers. 
Stan may also bring the letter up orally next time he's on the phonne with Gibson or Kyle as an example of how not to handle this situation. 
Yea--it was outstanding news! 
What a hoss. 
Can't catch you this time but 14721 keep me posted on your next trip. 
DF 
Evan -- 
Who is responsible for completing all paperwork for entering a new market? 
Is it someone on your team or someone from CEC? 
There have been some issues with getting everything coordinated lately and I wanted to make sure that we knew who was on point. 
Jim 
Am I scheduled to attend? 
Jim 
The next meeting of the CAEM Board of Directors will be held on Wednesday, September 12, at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in Washington, DC. 
The meeting is being held in conjunction with the third meeting of our DISCO of the Future Forum. 
(Please visit our newly updated website www.caem.org for more information on the DISCO Forum.) 
Following the Board meeting on Wednesday, you are invited to join with members of the DISCO Forum for a Wednesday evening reception and dinner, including a guest speaker. 
Board members are also invited to join in the substantive session of the DISCO Forum on Thursday, September 13. 
Because of an international medical convention ongoing in Washington at the same time as our meetings, the Grand Hyatt unfortunately is already booked. 
However, we have reserved a block of rooms at the nearby Wyndham Hotel. 
To reserve one of these rooms, you must inform the Wyndham staff that you are part of the CAEM group. 
If you should decide to arrange lodging at a different hotel, please do so quickly as there is limited availability in all surrounding hotels. 
We will be making the Wyndham rooms available to members of the DISCO Forum on July 20. 
If you have any questions or require any assistance at all, please contact Hope Duncan at 202.739.0134 or Jeff Mangold at 703.729.2710. 
We are looking forward to seeing you on September 12. 
Hotel Information: 
Grand Hyatt Hotel 1000 H Street NW Washington DC 20001 Phone: 202.582.1234 or 1.800.233.1234 Fax: 202.637.4781 Website: http://washington.hyatt.com/wasgh/index.html 
Wyndham Washington DC 1400 M Street NW Washington, DC 20005 Phone: 202.429.1700 or 1.877.999.3223 Fax: 202.785.0786 Website: http://www.wyndham.com/Washington_DC/default.cfm 
correct. 
Is this correct? 
If so, I will handle it. 
Thanks Jim. 
Lora Sullivan@ENRON 
07/19/2001 03:31 PM 
Dear Linda, 
We are receiving invoices from Ace Federal Reporters for transcripts of the recent FERC settlement conferences. 
Linda Robertson says they should be charged to Jim Steffes' cost center, etc. 
Do you want me to send the invoices to you? 
Let me know. 
Many thanks. 
Lora 
Lora Sullivan Federal Government Affairs Representative Enron 1775 Eye Street, NW Suite 800 Washington, DC 20006 202-466-9142 202-828-3372 (fax) email: lora.sullivan@enron.com 
<Embedded Picture (Device Independent Bitmap)> 
I'm in all week. 
Jim 
Can we visit about what went on with Ursula at the PRC meeting when you catch up? 
BRADLEY JR, ROBERT L, 
A revised version of the Evaluation form for Associates and Analysts is attached below. 
Please disregard and destroy the form you received on July 2, as well as any blank forms retrieved from the PEP system prior to that date. 
Please use the attached for Associate and Analyst evaluations. 
All Evaluations for Associates and Analysts must be completed using this form. 
- BRENNER, URSULA J.doc << File: BRENNER, URSULA J.doc >> 
Jean & Thane -- 
Can we have a meeting this week (maybe Thursday at 3:30) to discuss this? 
Jim 
We do need a formal plan. 
We have been working closely together to identify the issues as they develop and propose solutions. 
Doug has been providing us with the necessary specific market information. 
We have been successful in communicating that information to the new commissioners and Ercot and seeking resolution. 
The commission is definitely more responsive to market participants that are articulating the issue, providing specific examples and proposing the solution. 
Grand-standing is ignored. 
Those who show up with complaints but cannot point to specifics are virtually ignored. 
Those who show up and complain, but are not participating in the working groups and the daily Ercot phone calls, board meetings, etc. are ignored. 
Doug and I met with the Chairman of PUCT and have had subsequent conversations. 
Thane and I also visited with him. 
Pat Wood made a phone call to Tom Noel and told him to get the Texas market fixed. 
(Even though he has bigger things to do in D.C., this is his legacy and he recognizes that if deregulation does not work in Texas, the repercussions could be global.) 
Chairman Sibley and Chairman Wolens (of the Texas legislature) are also engaged in market developments. 
We have been working with the State Affairs legislative committee and keeping them apprised. 
There is an Electric Restructuring Committee hearing scheduled for September 6th or 7th. 
The forum is expected to be invited testimony only. 
Those currently listed as invitees are PUCT Commissioners and Ercot's Sam Jones and Tom Noel. 
The hearing is focused on the pilot and we have an opportunity to provide some probing questions for Wolens to direct to Sam and Tom. 
Now that Sibley is not a candidate for Lt. Governor, there is more freedom to open up and ask some difficult questions. 
Thane is in Austin on Friday, but is available by phone. 
I will be on a plane to Houston at 8:00 a.m. 
Can we find another time that works for us to meet? 
Thane is in an Ercot PRS meeting Friday from 9:30 until 3:00. 
I am available after Rick's Friday budget meeting...are you available then? 
You are right, we do need a formal plan, Thane has started an initial draft. 
Thanks, Jean 
Jean & Thane -- 
Walking out last night, Kevin Presto indicated that there were games being played in ERCOT with the new market rules and prices in certain markets were not reflective of working markets. 
Enron needs to use this situation to quickly get our viewpoints up into the PUCT and ERCOT ISO on what is driving these problems and our proposed fixes. 
If ERCOT goes the way of California - either due to market power or poor market design rules - it will be a bad day for deregulation and for Pat Wood. 
As important, the new PUCT Commissioners need some help right now in messaging the market. 
Let's get them to support constructive solutions that will make a real difference. 
Jean and Thane, I think that we need a FORMAL PLAN on what to do over the next 3 - 6 months to leverage this situation. 
I would like to discuss this with you on Friday am. 
I am free at 8am on Friday before Rick's budget meeting. 
Jim 
FYI. 
You may want to discuss with Becky. 
Jim 
As an outgrowth of the meeting Leslie and I had with Scott and Hunter a couple of weeks ago, we have begun work to develop an electronic tool that would allow us to provide ongoing summaries of FERC gas activities, and possibly electric activities, in a format that can be linked to the Fundamentals intranet site used by the traders. 
We envision a format that would provide a brief summary and analysis of the order, filing, etc. with a link to the source document as well for those who would like more detailed information. 
This would replace the paper copies you and your people are currently getting. 
Many details remain to be worked out, but we will keep you advised. 
In the meantime, could you please provide a contact on your side with whom we could discuss technical issues? 
What do I need to do? 
Jim 
Vince J Kaminski@ECT 
04/30/2001 02:28 PM 
I am forwarding for your attention the resume of Peter Percell who has an extensive experience in modeling physical flows of natural gas in pipeline systems. 
Peter is looking currently for a job. 
I met him last week at the meeting of the Science and Industry Advance with Mathematics society at the University of Houston. 
The application of recent developments in optimization theory and numerical methods can help Enron to improve further efficiency of our pipeline system and reduce the consumption of compressor fuel. 
Please, let me know if you interested in introducing Peter to executives in your organization. 
I shall be glad to make arrangements for an interview. 
Vince Kaminski 
Peter Percell <percell@swbell.net> on 04/30/2001 11:16:58 AM 
I enjoyed your presentation, and meeting you briefly afterwards, at the SIAM Workshop last Friday. 
I have extensive experience as a technical leader in the design and development of modeling and simulation software products, mostly for the oil and gas pipeline industry. 
I am looking for a position that can utilize my software development and mathematical skills. 
Getting out of the narrow confines of the pipeline simulation industry would be a plus. 
Please consider whether I might fit in your group. 
Your answer to a question indicated that I have several of the skills you look for. 
Also, please let me know, by email, the names and contact information of other managers within Enron who might benefit from having someone with my qualifications in their group. 
Attached are my resume and an addendum covering academic & consulting experience. 
Publications are available on request. 
I will call you in a couple of days to follow up on this email. 
Thank you for your time. 
Peter Percell 10030 Doliver Drive percell@swbell.net Houston, TX 77042-2016 (713) 532-3836 voice & fax 
- Percell, Peter Resume Only.doc 
- Percell, Peter A&C Exp.doc 
Sorry I guess I didn't read it very well. 
It's ok with me. 
Ok. 
Contact Cindy Stark to make an appointment. 
Nasim H Khan@TRANSREDES 
04/30/2001 12:42 PM 
Stan: 
I will be completing my tour of duty in Bolivia in September of this year. 
I am talking to a number of people regarding opportunities for a new assignment back in Houston office. 
Thought since I will be in Houston, stop by your office for few minutes. 
NK 
Stanley Horton@ENRON 
04/30/2001 12:35 PM 
What is the subject matter you wish to visit about? 
Nasim H Khan@TRANSREDES 
04/30/2001 09:24 AM 
Stan: 
I will be in Houston on May 11th and would like to visit with you in early afternoon if possible. 
Please let me know what time would work for you. 
Regards, 
Nasim Khan 
I figured this posting belonged to one of you. 
Please see the message from Danny Jones. 
Danny_Jones%ENRON@eott.com on 04/30/2001 01:39:56 PM 
Dear Mr. Horton, 
I have recently been made aware of a help desk analyst job#0000108806 that has become available in your department. 
I am currently employed with the aviation department (hangar attendant) of enron and would like to use my past knowledge and experience to persue my goals in the technology feild. 
I am asking respectfully if you could give me a recommendation or referral to ETS technology department. 
Anything you could do to help further my goals would be appreciated. 
Respectfully, 
Danny Jones 281-443-3744 smithjones@ev1.net 
I have contacted the relevant people of your interest in the job. 
Danny_Jones%ENRON@eott.com on 04/30/2001 01:39:56 PM 
Dear Mr. Horton, 
I have recently been made aware of a help desk analyst job#0000108806 that has become available in your department. 
I am currently employed with the aviation department (hangar attendant) of enron and would like to use my past knowledge and experience to persue my goals in the technology feild. 
I am asking respectfully if you could give me a recommendation or referral to ETS technology department. 
Anything you could do to help further my goals would be appreciated. 
Respectfully, 
Danny Jones 281-443-3744 smithjones@ev1.net 
This is ok by me. 
Rick looks like a good candidate. 
Ken Rice@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS 
05/01/2001 03:48 PM 
Executive Committee: 
We would like to pursue an offer to Rick Fehl prior to the next Executive Committee meeting on May 7, 2001. 
Please forward your comments or questions as soon as possible. 
You will find attached the recommendation letter and his resume. 
Regards, 
Ken Rice & Kevin Hannon 
This is to advise you that we have available, for your business or personal use, Stan's four (4) WNBA Comets tickets. 
These seats are in Section 104, Row D, Seats 1-4. 
Their schedule is listed below. 
Please let me know if you are interested in any of these games. 
They will be distributed on a business basis first, then personal use. 
Preseason Game A: Saturday, May 12 @ 7:30PM vs. Miami SOL 
Preseason Game B: Thursday, May 24 @ 7:30PM vs. Detroit SHOCK 
Game 1: Monday, May 28 @ 2:00PM vs. Los Angeles SPARKS 
Game 3: Monday, June 11 @ 7:00PM vs. Los Angeles SPARKS 
Game 4: Thursday, June 14 @ 7:30PM vs. Portland FIRE 
Game 5: Sunday, June 17 @ 1:00PM vs. Utah STARZZ 
Game 6: Tuesday, June 19 @ 7:30PM vs. Washington MYSTICS 
Game 7: Saturday, June 23 @ 3:00PM vs. Sacramento MONARCHS 
Game 8: Monday, July 2 @ 7:30PM vs. Portland FIRE 
Game 9: Friday, July 6 @ 7:30PM vs. Indiana FEVER 
Game 10: Sunday, July 8 @ 1:00PM vs. Cleveland ROCKERS 
Game 11: Tuesday, July 24 @ 7:30PM vs. Utah STARZZ 
Game 12: Saturday, July 28 @ 12:30PM vs. New York LIBERTY 
Game 13: Monday, July 30 @ 7:30PM vs. Seattle STORM 
Game 14: Friday, August 3 @ 7:30PM vs. Orlando MIRACLE 
Game 15: Monday, August 6 @ 7:00PM vs. Phoenix MERCURY 
Game 16: Monday, August 13 @ 7:30PM vs. Minnesota LYNX 
Please note that date and time are subject to change; please check local listings. 
Thanks, 
Cindy 713/853-6197 
Mailing them to the house iis fine. 
It will give us some weekend reading! 
Thanks. 
Stephen.Dyer@bakerbotts.com on 05/01/2001 08:50:01 PM 
Almost done with your drafts. 
Took me a little longer to review and revise Adam's first drafts than I had thought (there's a lot going on here, as you'll see soon). 
I expect to send them out to you sometime tomorrow. 
Since Debbie is a client too, I think I'll just mail them to your home unless you prefer otherwise. 
SD 
Good news. 
Congratulations and good luck. 
Hello, Bill! 
Stan will attend in person. 
Cindy 
Billy Dorsey@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
05/02/2001 12:03 PM 
Executive Committee Weekly Meeting 
Date: Monday, May 7th 
Time: 11:00 a.m. (CDT) 
Location: 50th Floor Boardroom 
Video: Connections will be established with remote locations upon request. 
Conf call: AT&T lines have been reserved. 
Please contact Sherri Sera (713/853-5984) or Bill Dorsey (713/646-6505) for the weekly dial-in number and passcode. 
Please indicate below whether or not you plan to attend this meeting and through what medium. 
Yes, I will attend in person _______ 
By video conference from _______ 
By conference call _______ 
No, I will not attend _______ 
*** 
Please return this e-mail to me with your response by 12:00 p.m., Friday, May 4th 
Thank you, 
Bill Dorsey. 
Thank you for the invitation. 
Unfortunately Debbie and I will not be able to attend due to previous committments. 
Tana, 
Please review the process below: 
With divisions, EOL does request a new Password Application for the applicant reflecting the name as you noted below. 
When the company is set up in the EOL database we link the company to the Parent and reference the CP ID. 
Sam, please confirm, Global Counterparty also provides the links to establish correlation between the parent and child for our downstream systems. 
Let me know if this is the appropriate steps that you would like to see. 
Thanks, 
Stephanie 
Sam & Stephanie, 
Re: Cargill Ferrous International 
It was my understanding with the EOL Team that all divisions would have the legal incorporated entity as part of the name. 
Stephanie, I my preference is to kick their Password Application back and get them to change it to read something like "Cargill Ferrous International, a division of Cargill, Inc." or "Cargill, Inc. acting through its Cargill Ferrous International Division". 
Samuel Schott 
03/21/2001 01:58 PM 
Any GCP adjustments will be highlighted in red. 
Attn. GCP_London: 
There's a new EOL Counterparty listed in the UK. 
Please respond. 
Best Rgds. 
Samuel x3-9890 ENW_GCP 
Please see attached. 
Harry - 
are you the right lawyer to look at this? 
Robert B Cass 
04/16/2001 04:52 PM 
Please approve the following product type in Datamanager after 11:00 p.m. 
See the steps for approval below. 
US Steel Hot Rolled Plate Phy 
Website Short Description of Product Type: US HR StlPlt Phy 
Product Type: 
Reference Period: 
The term of the Transaction shall be from the Effective Date (or start date) to the Termination Date (or end date). 
The Effective Date (or start date) is 01 Oct 2001. 
The Termination Date (or end date) is 31 Oct 2001. 
Product Additional Information (example): 
The Transaction is for hot rolled steel with a thickness of 1" and a width of 72 inches. 
The transaction is F.O.B. Reserve Marine Terminal in Chicago, Ill Metro Area. 
F.O.B. refers to the following terms: Seller is responsible for freight, unloading and storage up to and including delivery in warehouse, Buyer is responsible for storage, loading and freight after delivery. 
The Contract Quantity shall be quantity submitted by Counterparty via EnronOnline (5% greater or lesser allowance at Seller's option). 
Each calendar month during the term of the Transaction will be a Dispatch Period. 
Enron will guarantee delivery by the 20th of each scheduled Dispatch Period and accept supply to the 15th of each scheduled Dispatch Period. 
Payment shall be made, against the receipt of the required documents outlined in the General Terms and Conditions, in the Contractual Currency by telegraphic transfer no later than 30 calendar days after the date on which the Commodity is released to Buyer. 
Currency: 
The price is quoted in US Dollars per unit of volume, which will be the Contractual Currency. 
Unit of Measure: 
The unit of measure against which the price is quoted shall be net tons (2000 lbs) and the quantity shown shall be in net tons per month. 
STEPS FOR APPROVAL: 
click the START button 
select PROGRAMS 
select TEST APPLICATIONS 
select ENRONONLINE CLUSTER(PROD) 
PROCEED WITH USUAL LOGIN/PASSWORD 
click the Enron Online Production Cluster "START" button 
select EnronOnLine (this is the EOL Datamanager) 
PROCEED WITH EOL LOGIN/PASSWORD 
click on the "+" for EnronOnLine 
click on the "+" for Product Types 
click on the "+" for "Awaiting Approval" (OR "Partially Approved") 
select the product requiring review as stated in e-mail above 
Right "mouse" click on "properties" to view product set-up 
TO APPROVE: Right mouse click on "Approved" 
Thanks Bill - appreciate your help! 
Bill D Hare 
04/16/2001 05:51 PM 
We informed Tana that we made the change in Global Counterparty to include, "a division of Cargill Incorporated". 
We will meet in the near future to discuss the issues surrounding division and trade name setups in Global Counterparty. 
Bill 
Bill - 
If Sam's description below of the GCP procedure is correct, it looks to me like something needs to be changed. 
The difficulty lies in the fact that the confirmation system reads the counterparty's name from Global Counterparty. 
Since divisions of companies are not legal entities they do not have the power to contract in their own names. 
If the correct legal name is not in Global Counterparty, the confirmation goes out with the wrong legal name on it seriously compromising the contract itself. 
That is the source of Tana's concern regarding the correct entering of divisions in the system. 
My suggestion is that Global Counterparty use the same name that the customer has signed on the EnronOnline Password Application -- my understanding is that the EnronOnline team returns inappropriate Applications to the customer until they are correctly completed. 
In this particular case since the counterparty is still not allowed to transact on EnronOnline almost a month after sending in their application they are understandably upset and are now complaining. 
I would appreciate it if you could get this one fixed today and, if you have any problem with changing the GCP procedure, please let me know. 
Mark 
Tana Jones 
04/16/2001 03:11 PM 
Samuel Schott 
03/28/2001 01:09 PM 
FYI... 
Cargill Ferrous International is setup correctly in the Global Counterparty System as a Division of Cargill, Inc. 
Cargill Ferrous International is the full name of this division and setup as such in GCP with a Sub-to-Legal Link to Cargill, Inc. per GCP procedure. 
Also, the Global SAP team (Cheryl Johnson) would need Legal Name Change documentation from the Counterparty in order to change this name. 
Best Rgds. 
Samuel x3-9890 (GCP) Enron Net Works _ Global Data Management 
Any updates on adding the correct legal name to this counterparty name? 
Hello, 
Yes, GCP provides the links to establish the correlation between the parent and child for our downstream systems. 
GCP procedure is to create Counterparty names that reflect either the Tradename / Division name or Parent Name -- not both simultaneously. 
(Although, we have broken that rule for Legal in the past.) 
This defeats the purpose of using a Tradename. 
Best Rgds. 
Samuel 
Tana, 
Please review the process below: 
With divisions, EOL does request a new Password Application for the applicant reflecting the name as you noted below. 
When the company is set up in the EOL database we link the company to the Parent and reference the CP ID. 
Sam, please confirm, Global Counterparty also provides the links to establish correlation between the parent and child for our downstream systems. 
Let me know if this is the appropriate steps that you would like to see. 
Thanks, 
Stephanie 
Sam & Stephanie, 
Re: Cargill Ferrous International 
It was my understanding with the EOL Team that all divisions would have the legal incorporated entity as part of the name. 
Stephanie, I my preference is to kick their Password Application back and get them to change it to read something like "Cargill Ferrous International, a division of Cargill, Inc." or "Cargill, Inc. acting through its Cargill Ferrous International Division". 
Samuel Schott 
03/21/2001 01:58 PM 
Any GCP adjustments will be highlighted in red. 
Attn. GCP_London: 
There's a new EOL Counterparty listed in the UK. 
Please respond. 
Best Rgds. 
Samuel x3-9890 ENW_GCP 
Please see attached. 
Doc - 
I'll be in town through Sunday morning. 
Any chance we can get together for dinner Saturday eve.? 
Mark 
I'm handling the afternoon -- I think that Harry has this morning. 
MHC 
Can you cover for me today? 
I am in mediation. 
I left a voicemail for Sharon Butcher, as well, just to make sure it is handled. 
My schedule shows an afternoon session. 
Do we have 2 sessions today? 
If so, you may want to split and cover. 
Thanks a ton. 
I will take you next one in August. 
Thanks, 
Kriste 
Kriste K. Sullivan Enron Corp. - Legal EB 4861 (713) 853-7557 Phone (713) 646-5847 Fax 
I got this. 
I assume this is 12:30 Central Time? 
When: Wednesday, September 19, 2001 10:30 AM-11:30 AM (GMT-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada); Tijuana. 
Where: Conf. Call 
*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~* 
10:30-11:30 PST 
Call-in #: 800/711-8000 
Passcode: 4153030 
Here is the overview of Bob Henderson's Employment Agreement. 
What do you think? 
MHC 
Michelle, please comment. 
Please send me an email response about whether you and Michelle Cash are OK with what he's written. 
After that, what do we do? 
Brad 
After a conversation with Ryan Seleznov I herewith like disclose in writing my intentions in respect to Dealbench. 
Please see attached Word file 
Best regards 
Tobias Munk 
Please see the attached. 
Teresa 
Please send David Lund copies of our standard corporate services agreement and the standard assignment letter (use Bridgeline example -- with and without non-compete). 
Michelle 
We're formatting one this week, and we'll send it when it's done. 
Michelle 
Thanks very much. 
Do you also have a SSD we can use? 
Jane 
<< File: 220b - dg - Agreement for Recruiting Services.doc >> << File: 220a DG - Agreement for Contract Services.DOC >> 
Here are the sample Agreements. 
Please let us know if you need anything else. 
Thanks. 
Diane Goode Senior Specialist 
I agree also, but I don't know all the parties or complications involved. 
Should there be a (groan) meeting on this? 
Can you please help with this one? 
I agree with what the concern is below. 
We have GIS ids, and Eid (external id - just like GIS id). 
I think we should try to migrate to one of these. 
Please let me know what type of statement I should make back to the customer. 
Thanks. 
Kathy, 
Per my voicemail message, please review the note below. 
I'd like to work with you on a response to this customer. 
Thanks, 
Brandee 
Brandee Sanborn I.S.C. Customer Care Design & Process Support http://isc.enron.com/site 
<< OLE Object: Picture (Device Independent Bitmap) >> 
Ngoc Luan Do@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
08/07/2001 12:36 PM 
To Whom It May Concern: 
Through TV and newspapers , I hear constantly about identity fraud using stolen social security information. 
I am very concerned about this issue. 
I have the following suggestion for our company. 
Since Enron's employees are assigned an SAP identification numbers (P number) and an HR number, could Enron as a company use these IDs instead of the SS numbers? 
This will be safer for all employees. 
For example, I am concerned when I buy the monthly bus passes and I have to fill in my SS number. 
I do not feel secure at all to see my SS in so many databases at Enron, especially when some databases are from third-parties (out-sourcing). 
We could use our badge number there instead of our SS. 
Please let me know how your organization can help the Enron employees feel safer about the safeguard of their SS number. 
Please calendar and print for my files on this meeting. 
Thanks. 
MHC 
All, 
A reminder that the HR Associate Points Meeting will take place as below: 
Thursday, 23rd August 3.30 pm - 5.30 pm (EB46C1). 
The Leads who are responsible for Associates are as follows: 
Sunjay Arya 
Gary Buck 
Khymberly Booth 
Ryan Seleznov 
Mecole Brown 
Tim O'Rourke 
Tana Cashion 
Sheila Walton 
Wendy Fincher 
Sheila Knudsen 
Karen Phillips 
Neil Davies 
Noel Ryan 
Cindy Skinner 
Simone Scott Walker 
Shanna Funkhouser 
Peer reviews are currently been gathered on the above. 
Upon receipt, I shall forward to each of you a copy of the reviews for your respective associate. 
In addition they will be contacting you to discuss their participation in projects outside their rotation. 
Those who are not assigned an associate may also allocate points (a max of 150) at the meeting based on contribution to your areas for the first review period. 
If anyone has any questions on the above please let me know. 
Kind regards, 
Karen. x54667 
Shanna, I spoke with Per tonight about this. 
Let's talk tomorrow. 
Thanks. 
Michelle 
This is the background to my conversation with Shanna. 
I have a copy of the document I can give to you tomorrow. 
Thanks for following up on this. 
Per 
Per - 
I did not hear back from Shanna or Sharon Butcher. 
Could you please ask Shanna to take this situation to Sharon tomorrow? 
John, Per and I discussed the hostile environment issue and we are both concerned that we may have some repercussions. 
I am vacation until the 22nd but Per is up to speed and I would like to make sure that you keep up with him and any HR / Legal activity that may occur. 
Thank you 
Paula 
Let's discuss exactly what is involved here -- confidentiality, etc. 
Thanks. 
MHC 
Hi Ya'll, 
I wanted to let you know about this before I respond to her request. 
Let me know if you have any questions. 
Regards, 
Sandra 
Kathy McMahon suggested that I contact you in an effort to gather information on: Enron's Affirmative Action Policy and plans; as well as demographic analysis of workforce (gender, age, ethnic origin, nationality) 
Jeff Skilling has agreed to work with Harvard Business School (HBS) on a 5-year case study called 'Modern Giants'. 
HBS will shadow Enron and a number of other companies over the next five years to assess how we react to market changes and to see how we morph during this time period. 
Please let me know at your earliest convience if you can help me. 
Regards, 
Cindy 
please print all these for me. 
Thanks. 
MHC 
Ryan, 
Try this. 
bob k 
FYI re: NEPCO picketing issues. 
Michelle 
Michelle, 
Two in one day. 
We understand that the pipe fitters are also planning to picket the Lake Worth, Florida project as well. 
Our execution team needs to get some guidance and planning for this picketing should it interfere with the progress of the work. 
In that respect, we need to dial in Rick Johnson and Olgletree to plan and communicate that plan to the execution team. 
I think the first step is a call between yourself, me, Mark Stubley and Mike Indivero. 
And then another call with all folks or a meeting at the jobsite to lay out the plan. 
Barbara, please organize a call for Mike, Michelle, Mark Stubley and me. 
Thanks. 
David, 
I have been advised by our Construction Manager, Mr. Joe Osler that while he was visiting the City of Lake Worth Building Planning and Zoning dept regarding our permit status he learned that the pipefitters have inquired about permit requirements to picket our site. 
Apparently the City informed them that no permit is required. 
I have heard that the pipefitters have established a picket line at the Payne Creek site today. 
We will need local legal counsel to assist us in this regard. 
Mike Indivero, I understand that Mr. Mike Croall's release date from NEPCO is Oct 31, 2001. 
Please advise as to who his replacement is and their report date. 
Thanks, 
Galen J. Torneby Project Manager National Energy Production Corporation (NEPCO) 11831 North Creek Parkway North Bothell, WA 98011 USA Tel: 425-415-3052 Cell: 425-922-0475 Fax: 425-415-3098 email: <mailto:galent@nepco.com> mailto:galen.torneby@nepco.com 
Rick Hopkinson@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
09/16/99 10:07 AM 
Sara, trading is still not settled. 
Thank you for the invitaion to the conference call. 
I would like both Lynn and I to participate. 
I assume we should come over EB. 
Can you tell us where. 
Thanks 
Rick 
,Do you want us to come over to the Enron b in your call. 
Could 
Sara Shackleton@ECT 
09/16/99 08:55 AM 
Have you decided who will be assisting tax-wise for these two countries? 
I have a conference call this afternoon at 3 pm (Houston time) with Antonio Felix de Araujo Cintra from the Tozzini firm regarding further research on derivative products for trading in Brazil. 
Attached is a summary of products and the various Enron groups seeking answers. 
If you would like to participate in person or by conference, please let me know. 
I will be in Sao Paulo from Sept 20-22 and Buenos Aires from Sept 23-24. 
In Brazil, I will be meeting again with Tozzini lawyers. 
In BA, I'll be meeting with Marval lawyers. 
Let me know if you would like to participate in any way. 
Sara 
please try to verify. 
Thanks. 
Sara 
Sara Shackleton 
09/16/99 10:16 AM 
How about Friday, Sept. 17, at 9 am (Houston time) which is 11 am (Sao Paulo) time? 
Please advise. 
Sara 
___________________________________________ 
Warning 
NOTICE: This message is confidential. 
If you have received it by mistake please let us know by reply and then delete it from your system; you should not copy this message or disclose its contents to anyone. 
Thank you. 
- Em-enro2.doc 
The call was cancelled. 
I am waiting to hear about a possible call Friday morning. 
Sara 
Andrea Bertone@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
09/15/99 04:41 PM 
Yes. 
If something happens that I'm not able to participate I'll let you know. 
Thanks. 
Sara Shackleton@ECT 
09/15/99 08:15 PM 
This call has been changed to 3 pm (Houston time) which is 5 pm (Sao Paulo time). 
Please let me know if you would like for me to conference you in. 
Sara 
The draft you received has been approved by Dan. 
If you would like this executed, please let me know. 
Sara 
Daniel R Castagnola@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
05/17/99 01:47 PM 
Sara: 
Looks good. 
Dan 
Sara Shackleton@ECT 
05/17/99 11:23 AM 
Dan: please see if the attached draft works. 
My extension is 35620. 
Sara 
As a result of our luncheon with the confirm desk yesterday, could someone develop a comprehensive list identifying all omnibus attachments? 
If you think any other pertinent information could be included, please feel free to add it. 
Thanks. 
Sara 
I e-mailed your assistant earlier this morning and have had no response. 
Can we reschedule the phone call for 9 am (Houston) which is 11 am (Sao Paulo) on Friday, Sept. 17? 
Please advise. 
Sara 
The conference call has been rescheduled for Friday, Sept. 17 at 9 am (Houston) which is 11 am (Sao Paulo). 
I will initiate the call. 
If anyone would like to be conferenced in or attend in person, please let me know. 
Thanks. 
Sara 
I am forwarding to you guidelines prepared for global products trading. 
It's a good starting point. 
I am currently working on guidelines for Argentina which will address both physical and financial trading. 
Other "guidelines" exist in limited form for the remote offices in Singapore and Australia. 
I am checking on London. 
I'm not exactly certain as to what you are looking for. 
Obviously the foreign offices have issues that may not apply in the US (although LA. is about as close as you can get to a third world country). 
One thing that doesn't show up in the attachment is the swap eligibility issue. 
Let me know how I can help further. 
Sara 
Janice Moore 
09/03/99 01:57 PM 
Here it is -- we printed this 2-sided and laminated it. 
Becky will bring you the hard copy version. 
Lunch date later. 
see below. 
It looks like the 2-day L/C issue is an issue. 
I'll call you shortly. 
Joseph Manogue at Tiger called me last night to say he had finally reviewed the draft ISDA doc with all agreed changes put in and lined from original. 
He faxed it to you and will have the original Fedexed overnight. 
Hope you'll have time to review it today. 
S&S has again asked about the gtee and l/c wording. 
They do not have anything from us in writing confirming the agreed changes. 
Joe asked that you fax the revised gtee wording that has been agreed (I believe it was our agreeing to reduce the claim period from 15 days down to 5) and the new l/c wording (drops the 2 day period to replace an l/c with a different bank if the first refuses to pay). 
I know we talked about these issues earlier, but Tiger's lawyers want to get everything agreed in writing now so final docs can be issued for signing, even if we are the one's issuing the gtee and l/c. 
Thanks! 
Call if you have questions or if I can be of any help. 
There is an outside chance we could have everything set to go this week. 
With best regards, 
Per 
Hi back! 
and Happy New Year too! 
To what do I owe this small pleasure? 
I'm fine in Texas, still hanging out with Phoebe and Chloe, working hard, etc. 
Where are you living these days? 
N.O.? Atlanta? 
Memphis? 
Eleuthra? 
St. Petersburg? 
Amelia Island Plantation? 
I've simply lost track! 
As for me, well, I lead the simple life, own a little house in West University, own a little car (I had to buy a new one recently - the 14-year old 380 SE started scaring me a bit), you know, the usual. 
Are you selling burgers up and down the east coast? 
Have you gone international? 
In a new franchise business? 
How's your family? 
Got to get back to work! 
This weekend I'm off to Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires on business. 
SARA 
SamChawk@aol.com on 09/11/99 07:48:44 PM 
Sara- 
Happy New Year, stranger! 
Hope all is well. 
Do you miss me? 
SAM 
Mark Elliott tells me that you drafted some trader guidelines (physical and financial) for the London traders. 
I am trying to develop similar guidelines for the Southern Cone regions (first Argentina) and thought your expertise would be very helpful. 
Could you send me a set? 
I'm leaving for Sao Paulo on Saturday but I will be in the office tomorrow. 
Thank you for your help. 
Regards. 
Sara 
(if .....) (iii) definitive agreements acceptable to Party A in its sole discretion regarding the debt and all other aspects of [the project to be owned by Party B], including but not limited to the senior debt facility, commitments and all project documents, have been fully negotiated and executed and the [project] has been brought to financial close. 
fyi 
Robert Quick 
09/17/99 04:50 AM 
Sara, here are the trader guidelines I developed for UK gas, UK power and Nordic power. 
I assume you need both gas and power. 
These are to some extent country or market specific. 
As these guidelines need to be approved by Houston, I am copying this to Mark, Alan and Jeff. 
tks 
Sara Shackleton 
09/16/99 09:48 PM 
Mark Elliott tells me that you drafted some trader guidelines (physical and financial) for the London traders. 
I am trying to develop similar guidelines for the Southern Cone regions (first Argentina) and thought your expertise would be very helpful. 
Could you send me a set? 
I'm leaving for Sao Paulo on Saturday but I will be in the office tomorrow. 
Thank you for your help. 
Regards. 
Sara 
Please review the attached memo to verify that I have identified all of the products that you are interested in trading in Brazil. 
I will be in Sao Paulo on Monday, September 20, 1999. 
Thank you, 
Sara 
JMB <JBennett@GMSSR.com> 
12/22/2000 06:28 PM 
Parties, attached is the promised ruling that provides procedural guidance for the hearings on 12/27 and 12/28. 
The ruling will also be posted on the web site as quickly as possible. 
Thank you for your patience and I hope you can take a few moments to enjoy the holidays. 
--Angela Minkin Administrative Law Judge 
<<1%P701!.doc>> 
Note that this communication is confidential, covered by CA's settlement rules. 
"Lindh, Frank (Law)" <FRL3@pge.com> 
12/21/2000 07:50 PM 
Confidential Settlement Document Per CPUC Rule 51 
Gas Accord II Settlement Participants: 
Attached is PG&E's Gas Accord II (GA II) Settlement Proposal. 
We believe it addresses many of the issues and concerns you have raised in the workshops. 
As an overview, this proposal: * Maintains the basic Gas Accord structure in place today for the period 2003 to 2007. * 
* Offers end user transportation rates for 2003 lower for most customers than rates in effect today. * 
* Provides for vintaged Redwood path rates for core customers. * 
* Offers a 7.5 cent/dth rate to large customers while minimizing rate changes to other customers, minimizing the incentive for these customers to seek to bypass local transmission charges and other CPUC-approved charges. * 
* Adopts guidelines to improve reliability and help moderate prices in gas commodity markets, and identifies the capital projects needed to meet these guidelines over the course of the GA II period (2003-2007). * 
* Provides a high degree of rate stability, with a 3.5% escalator to capture both inflation and the cost of needed capital projects. 
The guaranteed rates will be adjustable only for significant changes in the cost of capital or increased costs due to governmental requirements or catastrophic events. * 
* Preserves a rate differential between the Redwood and Baja paths, although somewhat less than the current differential. * 
* Proposes a two-stage open season for firm transportation services beginning in 2003, with end users receiving a first option on available capacity. * 
* Maintains the core aggregation program with some adjustments. 
PG&E also anticipates that the Core Procurement Incentive Mechanism (CPIM) will be similar to today's mechanism, but will reflect the somewhat larger capacity holdings needed to meet anticipated increases in core demand and to meet a 1-day in 10-year cold weather event. 
This also will serve as a reminder that an all-Party meeting is scheduled at PG&E's headquarters in San Francisco on January 10 and 11, to discuss this proposal and to respond to your questions. 
We look forward to answering your questions and receiving your feedback. 
The attached documents include the GA II Settlement proposal, an Attachment (a copy of PG&E's proposed Gas Rule 27), and a set of supporting workpapers. 
Finally, please note that the Settlement document and the Attachment are in "Word 2000" format. 
We would be glad to provide the same documents in an earlier version of Word, upon request by individual Parties. 
We look forward to seeing you on January 10-11. 
In the meantime, we extend our best wishes for a safe and happy holiday season. 
Frank Lindh Ray Williams (415) 973-2776 (415) 973-3634 
<<PG&E Gas Accord II Settlement Proposal 12-20-00.doc>> <<Proposed Gas Rule 27.doc>> <<COS & Rates Workpapers for GA II 12-20-2000 Proposal.xls>> 
Greetings Judge Minkin: 
This is to inform that a representative of Enron Corp would like to address the Commission on the issue of utility rate stabilization plans at the Commission's hearings scheduled for December 27th and 28th. 
Thank you. 
Sincerely, 
Jeffrey Dasovich Director, Enron Corp 
Attached is a draft of the talking points for the Commission's hearings. 
Few points: 
Our time is likely to be limited to 5-10 minutes. 
Mike Day, our outside counsel, will make the presentation on our behalf. 
Mike Day is fleshing out the legal details of our presentation and he will forward that along for folks review later today. 
Comments can be forwarded to me via email, pager (888.916.7184), voicemail (415.782.7822), or home (415.621.8317). 
We will finalize the message points on tomorrow's daily call (10 AM CST). 
The call in number is 800.713.8600. 
Code is 80435. 
The Commission's hearings begin tomorrow at 10 AM (PST). 
Jeff Dasovich 
Sent by: Jeff Dasovich 
12/26/2000 03:15 PM 
Attached is a draft of the talking points for the Commission's hearings. 
Few points: 
Our time is likely to be limited to 5-10 minutes. 
Mike Day, our outside counsel, will make the presentation on our behalf. 
Mike Day is fleshing out the legal details of our presentation and he will forward that along for folks review later today. 
Comments can be forwarded to me via email, pager (888.916.7184), voicemail (415.782.7822), or home (415.621.8317). 
We will finalize the message points on tomorrow's daily call (10 AM CST). 
The call in number is 800.713.8600. 
Code is 80435. 
The Commission's hearings begin tomorrow at 10 AM (PST). 
Nice job. 
Going to be a wild ride. 
That's a very good point. 
I'll make the change. 
Best, 
Jeff 
Harry Kingerski 
12/26/2000 03:33 PM 
Jeff - 
instead of suggesting a specific rate increase - 10 or 15 %, I think we should acknowledge that a "modest" increase may be necessary and may in fact be desirable - but that the specific amount of increase should be reasoned and subject to well thought out evidence and hearings, not just determined by whim. 
In general, we should not be overly prescriptive at this point and I know you agree with that. 
Otherwise, I think you have captured the points excellently. 
We're in the process of developing a strategy to take us through the next few months. 
But while the (otherwise perishable) thoughts are still fresh in my mind from the hearings on Monday and Tuesday, I wanted to throw out some observations for discussion in the days/weeks ahead. 
OBSERVATION--The pressure to finger somebody for "price gouging" is increasing. 
The administration is hell bent on finding a "fall guy." 
The price spikes pose real political risks for Davis and he and his folks need and want an easy way out. 
His press release following the hearing renewed the call for "refunds." 
On my panel, Loretta Lynch asked Reliant and Duke to supply her with the details of the contracts they cut to sell their power forward to marketers. 
And Carl Wood's remarks were extreme. 
At the Barton hearing, a liberal democrat (Filner) and a conservative Republican (Hunter) locked arms in calling for refunds. 
Bilbray joined the "gouging" band wagon. 
The utilities repeatedly called on FERC to do a "real" investigation, with hearings, testimony, data discovery---the works. 
On the positive side, the FERC commissioners lauded Wolak, his analysis, and his remarks on the panel. 
Wolak said somewhat emphatically that the nature of California's market structure makes it impossible to single out a single participant as the culprit. 
He also stated that just everyone's just acting in their own self-interest, responding to the screwed incentives embedded in the structure. 
IMPLICATION--It seems prudent for Enron to understand better its risks of getting fingered. 
In the best case, the clamoring for a "refund" subsides. 
In which case, the only cost to Enron is the internal cost incurred to understand better the risks of getting fingered. 
In the medium case, investigations find that Enron (like others) "played by the rules," but the rules stunk, and Enron profited at the expense of California consumers. 
You're right, Sue. 
Rates can't go up w/out declaring the rate freeze over in some fashion---trying to finesse it. 
Thanks very much for the comments. 
Harry also had a good comment---don't specify the amount of rate increase in our comments; rather note that the rate increase needs to be well-reasoned and based on facts and evidence. 
Will make that change. 
Shawna Johnson@ENRON 
02/22/2001 04:37 PM 
This is a request for your interview participation. 
The Associate and Analyst Programs will be on the Penn, undergraduate campus interviewing summer Analyst interns next week. 
Due to business reasons, previously scheduled interviewers from the Penn team have had to cancel their participation. 
Currently, I need three interviewers for Thursday, March 1st and one interviewer for Friday, March 2nd. 
Please let me know of your availability. 
Campus interviews are scheduled as follows: 
Place: University of Pennsylvania 
Date: Thursday, March 1st Friday, March 2nd 
Day One Interviews Day Two Interviews 
Where: On Campus Inn at Pen 
Time: 8:00 - 5:00 8:00 - 5:00 
Interviewers: Kevin McGowan- confirmed 
Jen Fraser- confirmed 
Margaret Rhee- confirmed 
Chris Hilgert- confirmed 
In the event that you have scheduling conflicts and cannot participate, any referrals at the Director or VP level would be greatly appreciated. 
As always, thank you for your time and please contact me @ ext 58369 if you have any questions. 
Shawna Johnson Recruiting Coordinator 
Sorry about that before. 
I'll not say anything. 
Best 
Jeff 
"Scott A. Kushnick" <skush@swbell.net> 
01/26/2001 12:48 PM 
Please don't mention my NY trip to anyone. 
Keep in touch. 
Scott 
thanks for the update. 
have you gotten a price? 
Doug Leach 
01/25/2001 09:40 AM 
fyi 
Tom Byargeon, Kevin Miller and Ken Loch in ENA are working with producers in the US involved in deep water offshore Louisiana/Texas oil and gas drilling projects. 
This financing activity was primarily started to help ENA secure long term well head and pipeline natural gas supplies to supplement the gas trading desk activities. 
Just like what happened in Enron's initial VPP program they are find more interest in oil drilling projects rather than natural gas projects. 
They are currently working on a bid (due 1/31) for the Medusa project which involves Murphy (operator), Agip and Callon in Mississippi Canyon Blocks #538 and #582. 
The initial reservoir reports estimate reserves of 80-120 million barrels of sour crude and they estimate initial production to be 40,000 bpd starting in 1Q 2003. 
Quality is estimated to be a Mars type crude with 25-27 API Gravity and 1.5-2.0% sulfur. 
Plans are to build a private pipeline to Equilon's West Delta #143 platform and then bring the oil onshore. 
Peggy is finding out where WD #143 pumps to onshore. 
Tom's group would like to know if we have any interesting in buying the crude on either a fixed or floating basis. 
The floating could be tied to a Platt's index or the NYMEX. 
It is far too early to expect Murphy to enter into a physical or financial contract, but Tom hopes to get us first and/or last look from Murphy when the time is right. 
Another alternative is to give Murphy barrels at their 95,000 bpd Meraux, Louisiana refinery in exchange for the new production barrels. 
Could someone in your group please give me a notional non binding basis differential for this quality of crude for Cal 2003? 
please print 
Amanda Huble@ENRON 
01/24/2001 01:02 PM 
Please address, and I'll check with Legal as well. 
We typically only book deals when everything is signed off. 
Jeff 
David Hoog 
01/26/2001 09:37 AM 
following up on our discussion yesterday; for these types of deals, i dont think its necessary to have all the documentation of our counterparty's authorization to enter into the agreement. 
these are short term transactions and requiring this documentation will cause us to lose business because competitive alternatives do not have such burdensome requirements. 
the primary reason we need these things is for the scenario where a muni does a derivative deal with an open-ended downside, loses $50 million, and then claims that it was not a valid contract. 
in our case, they are only hedging. 
we are collecting a premium up front and their total cost is known up front. 
therefore they will not attempt to make this claim. 
even if they did, our risk is limited to the premium , not some big payout. 
the risk of losing business is far greater than the risk of a counterparty trying to get their premium back. 
seems like a 5 second decision to me. 
is it possible to combine the standard isda and our confirm into a single long form? 
by going away from the standard isda maybe we can eliminate these requirements because the payout liability is only 1-way. 
please print 
RusAmArts@aol.com 
01/26/2001 11:57 AM 
Dear Mr. Shankman, 
Thank you very much for your quick reply. 
Attached is my resume. 
I highlight the relevant skills in the summary. 
The position is with the EES MMC EAST department / WHOLESALE, RETAIL & COMM, ENRON ENERGY SERVICES. 
It was posted on Dec. 11, but the Human Resource dept said that if it is still on the internet, it is open. 
Look forward to hearing your comments / suggestions. 
Regards, 
Rina 
- ENRONR~1.DOC 
Yikes! 
That girl's mother sounds like a real problem. 
I'm not sure how I would have handled it. 
How's school going? 
Any plans for the weekend? 
Alma Martinez@ENRON 
01/26/2001 11:36 AM 
What happened? 
Here's a story...as I was waiting at the bus stop (7:35am) to go to school, a lady approached me and asked if I'd make sure her daughter got on a certain bus. 
The mother was running late for work and could not wait. 
I couldn't say no...so Nicki (the little girl-10 yrs. old) and I waited for the bus. 
It was now, 8:15 and there was no sign of her bus. 
On top of things, I had quiz at 8am. 
Which I then realized I missed. 
I decided that Nicki would just have to wait on her own. 
I asked her if she had any relatives that would want to know of her whereabouts. 
I called her grandmother and explained things to her. 
Pretty strange...aye. 
A bus that runs through UofH arrived and I almost got on without her, but I couldn't do it. 
Finally, I told the little girl that she would have to accompany me to school (8:30am). 
There were only 15 minutes left of class. 
I stayed for the remainder of the lecture. 
After class we went back to bus stop and within minutes her bus arrived. 
I told the bus driver where to drop her off. 
I notified her grandmother with the time of the departure. 
And I was relieved when Nicki called to let me know she was home safe. 
Please send the memo to the EGM business heads as well. 
Thanks. 
Jeff 
Jana Giovannini 
01/26/2001 10:51 AM 
Actually, Jen has volunteered for the afternoon session. 
I spoke to her prior to my note. 
Is there anyone else in EGM that could participate? 
Please let me know. 
Thanks. 
Jen, please take care of this for EGM 
Jana Giovannini 
01/24/2001 11:42 AM 
All, 
The Analyst and Associate Programs recognize we have many Analyst needs that need to be addressed immediately. 
While we anticipate many new Analysts joining Enron this summer (late May) and fulltime (August) we felt it necessary to address some of the immediate needs with an Off-Cycle Recruiting event. 
We are planning this event for Thursday, February 15 and are inviting approximately 30 candidates to be interviewed. 
I am asking that you forward this note to any potential interviewers (Managers or above). 
We will conduct first round interviews in the morning and the second round interviews in the afternoon. 
We need for interviewers to commit either to the morning (9am-12pm) or afternoon (2pm-5pm) complete session. 
Please submit your response using the buttons below and update your calendar for this date. 
In addition, we will need the groups that have current needs to commit to taking one or more of these Analysts should they be extended an offer. 
Thanks in advance for your cooperation. 
Thank you, 
Jana 
Where does our 50% (the 1.65 million dollars) show up? 
Can you provide me with more details? 
Great job, guys. 
Eric Gonzales 
01/25/2001 02:02 AM 
Great job gentlemen! 
This deviation shows that Eco definitely has a significant amount of option value which can be exploited with quick reactions and favourable market movements. 
Eric 
Wayne Perry@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
25/01/2001 00:20 
Finally completed tonight 
Net to Enron LNG Marketing Company - $ 272,000 ( $0.10/ mmbtu ) 
Net to Eco about $3,300,000 ( Enron 50% share about $ 1,650,000 ) 
Enron total gain not counting ENA's trading desk margin is $1,922,000 
Not bad for a single cargo. 
Wayne 
Jen, please take care of this for EGM 
Marianne: The following are my comments: 
1. In Section 1.1, there should be a parentheses after etc. in the 5th line. 
2. In Section 3.1, in the last sentence after the proviso insert "a" before the word "change" and after the word "in". 
3. In Section 6.1, change 20 Business Days to 20 days. 
Also, add a semicolon at the end of clause (i). 
4. In Section 6.2.1 I'll just note that the discount rate sentence I think is still an open issue. 
5. In Section 6.3, clause (c) should be reworded to fit with the language in the beginning of the Section. 
6. Capitalize the word "facility" in the definition of Average Annual Load Factor. 
7. Delete the definition of Costs as it is already defined in Section 6.2.1. 
8. Where is the defined term Govt Authority used? 
9. In the GTC, the ECP rep should also apply to EESI. 
Also, in the 7th line of the reps add the word "into" after the word "entered" and before the word "this". 
10. In Collateral Requests, insert a comma after deposit in the last line. 
I will also add granting/perfection language. 
11. In Events of Default, clause (a) refers to a dispute section which I'm not sure exists. 
In clause (e), delete the "s": from the word consolidation. 
12. Remedies should be deleted as it is already covered in Section 6.1. 
13. In UCC/Disclaimer of warranties, add a clause (c). 
I would add setoff language. 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Marianne Castano@EES 
05/30/2001 11:05 AM 
Carol: 
I have attempted to incorporate the changes that Jim has incorporated in our long form power agreement which ENA has suggested to date into the short form. 
Attached please find a sample short form (for the Con Ed market) for your review. 
Please note the following as you review: 
1. The short forms do not contain the optionality relating to our performing billing services -- all of our midmarket forms anticipate that we will act as customer's billing agent and that we will collect all amounts due related to T&D and the like from the customer (and reflect same on our invoice) and pass those amounts on to the customer's utility. 
2. I did not include a "Setoff" provision in this draft, mainly because the vast majority of the time, we will not, nor will an affiliate, have another agreement in place with these customers. 
If you feel strongly about our including a setoff provision, we will do so. 
3. The change in law provision reads a bit differently from the long form -- the thinking here is that the long form language is very lengthy and rather harsh (and we've had great difficulty selling it in the past). 
Taking into consideration this class of customer, we decided to include certain items, including our inability to cover our costs due to a change in law, rules or practices as a "force majeure event" in an effort to soften the approach (see the GTCs). 
Also we do not address calculation of a termination payment in the event of a change in law as the long form does -- again, more in the interest of "saving space" than anything else... 
Let us know your thoughts on this document and if you are comfortable with our using this until such time as the hybrid form is launched. 
If you are comfortable, we will drive these changes into our other midmarket power forms. 
Thanks again for your help with this project, 
Marianne 
P.S. Please be sure to copy Sarah Dietrich and Jennifer Hillegonds on your response -- they will be taking this project during my "hiatus" -- I am moving to PA on Friday of this week, and will be out of pocket through approximately 7/16. 
I will start up again in mid-July... 
John: 
I have faxed to you the form of Bond, our proposed Bond provisions and the EEI Master. 
I am waiting on the confirms and will send them to you shortly by fax or e-mail. 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Carol St Clair 
05/31/2001 09:01 AM 
Phyllis: 
Our letter of credit person would be more comfortable if we deleted all of the language that makes the LC transferable. 
Are you okay with that? 
If so, are we ready to execute? 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
lemelpe@NU.COM 
05/30/2001 03:00 PM 
Carol: 
I understand that we are still reviewing the attachment that lists the open transactions. 
How are you making out on the revised version of the LOC? 
Marianne: 
In addition to my other comments on the Mid Market Power Form, I think you should add a forward contract rep. 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Christie or Cass: 
Are we playing tomorrow at 9:30? 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Rhonda: 
As I mentioned in my e-mail, John Lepore at Select Energy (Settlements Group) is trying to reconcile our list with his list. 
He needs more info about these trades (i.e., price info) and would like to talk with you about it. 
His number is 860-665-2368 and e-mail address is leporjj@selectenergy.com. 
Once we agree on the list, we can sign the EEI Master. 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Rhonda L Denton 
05/25/2001 12:45 PM 
Here's everything that flows from 5/1/01 forward. 
Carol St Clair 05/25/2001 12:01 PM 
We need to include all outstanding transactions. 
Thanks. 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Rhonda L Denton 
05/25/2001 11:45 AM 
Do you want 6/1/01 and forward or do you want to include all of May since they have not been settled? 
Just let me know and I can send you a new attachment. 
Carol St Clair 05/25/2001 10:56 AM 
Rhonda: 
Does Attachment A to the Select EEI Master need to be updated or is the version that you sent to me the current version? 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
lemelpe@NU.COM 
05/25/2001 10:44 AM 
Carol - 
I think Valerie Mooney (our credit person) and Ed Sacks are still discussing some minor fine tuning of the LOC format. 
I spoke to Bob Bruce this morning - we're all set on the language in the Schedule to the ISDA, and there is a minor credit/billing issue in Paragraph 13 related to the timing of transfer of interest on collateral that Val will discuss with Ed as well. 
As far as the EEI goes, the only remaining issue that I'm aware of (aside from finalizing the LOC) is whether we've finished coordinating the Attachment containing the list of prior transactions. 
Sounds like we may actually get these documents executed early next week. 
Phyllis Lemell 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Rhonda L Denton 
06/01/2001 03:20 PM 
I am missing Deal No. 74419 on your sheet. 
It is Enpower No. 295870. 
Will fax. 
Rhonda: 
Thanks so much for your help on this. 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Rhonda L Denton 
06/01/2001 03:20 PM 
I am missing Deal No. 74419 on your sheet. 
It is Enpower No. 295870. 
Will fax. 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
Rhonda L Denton 
06/01/2001 03:20 PM 
I am missing Deal No. 74419 on your sheet. 
It is Enpower No. 295870. 
Will fax. 
Phyllis: 
We can accept the language with your chnages. 
Are we ready to execute? 
I am out of the office today but will be back tomorrow. 
Please call me. 
thanks. 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
lemelpe@NU.COM 
06/04/01 08:38 AM 
Carol - 
Our credit person doesn't understand why the transferability language needs to be eliminated. 
It simply refers to the same ICC publication for the transfer process that governs the letter of credit generally. 
Is there some specific concern that we can address? 
Russell: 
Your comments to the transfer agreement were fine. 
With respect to the Guaranty, I will delete the Schedule. 
Our system did not show any other chnages. 
Were there any? 
Carol 
Yes. 
Carol St. Clair EB 3889 713-853-3989 (Phone) 713-646-3393 (Fax) carol.st.clair@enron.com 
All, 
Please see the attached Interconnect Agreement with Questar. 
I wanted you all to have a look at what we believe is the final draft. 
It is a fairly standard, fully reimbursable interconnect with Questar. 
Transwestern will own and operate the interconnect. 
You will notice that Questar has requested a "Payment Plan" that details when they will pay Transwestern for the interconnect due to the recent Enron events. 
If anyone has any questions or concerns about the timing of these payments, please give me a call. 
Also, you will notice this interconnect may not be subject to the CIAC tax gross up, but to protect ourselves, we have added language in Para 3.2 that protects us financially if the IRS ever comes back to determine that this interconnect is subject to the CIAC tax. 
Robert Guthrie with the tax department has worked with us to develop this language. 
We hope to execute this Agreement this week. 
If you have any comments, please let me know. 
After execution, we will forward a final copy to you for your files. 
Thanks, 
Kim 713-853-3098 
<< File: Questar So Trails Hub Interconnect 02-05-02.doc >> 
Earl, 
We are looking at putting the metering facilities on their ROW (also, I think we will have to purchase about 50ft of ROW from ElPaso to get to Questar's property). 
As you look at this, if for some reason we cannot obtain ElPaso ROW, we will have to look at Plan B which would be to put the metering on our ROW. 
Our in-service date is May 1. 
If you think that May 1 may be difficult due to receiving the parts/materials on a timely basis because of the issues that vendors may have with us because of recent Enron events, please let me know. 
Questar has already informed us that they would help obtain parts/materials to our specifications if it helps achieve an in-service date of May 1. 
Thanks, Kim. 
Kim 
Has a location, Theirs or TW land/ROW, been settled and when is the required in-service date? 
Thanks 
Earl Chanley 505-625-8031 
All, 
Please see the attached Interconnect Agreement with Questar. 
I wanted you all to have a look at what we believe is the final draft. 
It is a fairly standard, fully reimbursable interconnect with Questar. 
Transwestern will own and operate the interconnect. 
You will notice that Questar has requested a "Payment Plan" that details when they will pay Transwestern for the interconnect due to the recent Enron events. 
If anyone has any questions or concerns about the timing of these payments, please give me a call. 
Also, you will notice this interconnect may not be subject to the CIAC tax gross up, but to protect ourselves, we have added language in Para 3.that protects us financially if the IRS ever comes back to determine that this interconnect is subject to the CIAC tax. 
Robert Guthrie with the tax department has worked with us to develop this language. 
We hope to execute this Agreement this week. 
If you have any comments, please let me know. 
After execution, we will forward a final copy to you for your files. 
Thanks, 
Kim 713-853-3098 
<< File: Questar So Trails Hub Interconnect 02-05-02.doc >> 
Are you back in the office yet? 
We've booked Italy tickets this week for departing Houston on Friday, May 24 to Newark/Rome and returning on Sunday, June 9 from Rome to Newark/Houston. 
Ticket price was $1,183 per ticket. 
Paul and Judy are on board. 
Can you and Tom join us? 
Janell and Dennis will not be able to go anywhere in 2002 due to Janell's broken leg. 
Please call me, let's discuss. 
Thanks, 
Kim X33098 
John, sorry for the late response, but I think you can implement immediately. 
I was in a meeting last week and this was discussed (I don't remember if you were there or not) but I'm thinking that you may have already proceeded ahead for implementation which is great, thanks! 
Kim. 
The telephony group has the new TW Hotline number and extensions ready for use, I have the solution center entering the greetings and Terry Kowalke has a new form and procedure for the Customer Service Reps. to use for updates. 
How much notification would you like to give the TW customers before implementing the new TW Hotline phone number? 
We can do a Popup notification along with changing the number on the Web page, we can also put out a Critical message which will send an Email to customers. 
Do you think we need to do more? 
Thanks: John Buchanan 
Yes, thanks. 
I was aware. 
I just couldn't remember if it was you or Terry. 
Thanks, Kim. 
Kim, 
The new TW Hotline was implemented Monday which included customer notification in the form of a Popup message in TMS and a Critical Notice which sent an Email. 
The new Hotline phone number is 713-853-3044. 
I was under the impression that Terry Kowalke had notified you of the implementation, TK was also made aware. 
John Buchanan 
John, sorry for the late response, but I think you can implement immediately. 
I was in a meeting last week and this was discussed (I don't remember if you were there or not) but I'm thinking that you may have already proceeded ahead for implementation which is great, thanks! 
Kim. 
The telephony group has the new TW Hotline number and extensions ready for use, I have the solution center entering the greetings and Terry Kowalke has a new form and procedure for the Customer Service Reps. to use for updates. 
How much notification would you like to give the TW customers before implementing the new TW Hotline phone number? 
We can do a Popup notification along with changing the number on the Web page, we can also put out a Critical message which will send an Email to customers. 
Do you think we need to do more? 
Thanks: John Buchanan 
Here it is. 
K. 
See the attached spreadsheet. 
Let me know if you have any questions. 
Jan, 
These numbers are slightly different from the ones you put together a few weeks ago. 
Are you comfortable with the difference? 
Any thoughts? 
No hurry, I was just wondering. 
Thanks, 
Kim. 
Attached is the TW Top Ten Shippers by Revenues for the year 2001 to be reported in the Browncover report. 
Note: 
Total transportation invoiced for 2001 was $180.9m. 
The amount of transportation revenues recorded in the general ledger is $165.9m. 
This difference is mainly due to the following: 
$10.0m - negotiated rates reserve(Reliant,Sempra, Richardson, Astr,and BP Energy) - $collected 
$ 2.7m - SoCal rate issue - $not collected 
$ 1.8m - additional month of PGE revenues due to prepayment invoicing beginning in 2001 - $collected 
Revenues for these customers were adjusted according. 
Also, revenues for the shippers acquiring released volumes from PGE at rates above TW's tariff rates were adjusted accordingly. 
Please call me at x36709 if there are questions 
thanks, 
richard 
Kyle, 
Sorry for not sending this yesterday. 
Monday's are always tough. 
Please review and let me know what you think. 
Let's talk before I leave town next Wednesday. 
Thanks, 
Kim. 
Kim, 
Here is the Job Description and the Operational Accountabilities for the position I mentioned to you last Sunday. 
As you can see it will take someone with some very good skills in organizing and interpersonal relationships. 
It will also require someone who is fairly mature in their own spiritual journey. 
If you know someone who might fit the bill ask them to contact me and/or send me their resume. 
See you Sunday. 
Tom 
Thomas W. Daugherty Vice President for Spiritual Care Methodist Health Care System 6565 Fannin Street, D-200 Houston, Texas 77030-2707 Office: 713-793-1429 Page: 281-735-5919 Cell: 713-819-2784 Fax: 713-790-2605 
Mansoor, 
Let's discuss. 
Kim. 
Kim 
The in-service date of May 1, will be very difficult to attain. 
Since the bankruptcy filing, vendors have been very reluctant to ship material prior to it being prepaid (Daniels, Fisher, Rosemont, other). 
These are the vendors of instrumentation required for the interconnect. 
Questar may be able to purchase material, but some of the items can have up to a 60 day delivery. 
(From time PA approved and funded to in-service will be 75 days at most. 
We have worked with Daniels on a chromatograph on another project and prepayment has taken 45 days alone. 
Daniels is not set up for prepayments as they bill off an invoice and the main office and accounting had to create an invoice for a chromatograph that had not been delivered. 
Not the usual mode of operations. 
The I/C design is for a UltraSonic meter and this is dependent on their testing schedule ( Canada or Kansas are the only two places to test to 100% of design). 
Will confirm testing schedule and delivery dates with UltraSonic ASAP. 
We will try to complete the I/C with the earliest in-service date possible, but with conditions as they are, a realistic date would be June 15, 2002. 
If you have questions or issues, please let me know. 
Thanks 
Earl Chanley 505-625-8031 
Earl, 
We are looking at putting the metering facilities on their ROW (also, I think we will have to purchase about 50ft of ROW from ElPaso to get to Questar's property). 
As you look at this, if for some reason we cannot obtain ElPaso ROW, we will have to look at Plan B which would be to put the metering on our ROW. 
Our in-service date is May 1. 
If you think that May 1 may be difficult due to receiving the parts/materials on a timely basis because of the issues that vendors may have with us because of recent Enron events, please let me know. 
Questar has already informed us that they would help obtain parts/materials to our specifications if it helps achieve an in-service date of May 1. 
Thanks, 
Kim. 
Listening to the Edison call w/investors Edison says they will pay everyone at the same time ("big bang" approach) sometime in Q1'02. 
My concern is that between now and then Dunn, the AG have the time and resources to make a heckuvalot of mischief, which could be detrimental to generators/marketers' claims. 
Investors are asking what Edison intends for QFs and generators--asking about haircuts in particular--and Edison is side-stepping the questions. 
Great. 
Figured they'd contacted them, but wanted to make sure. 
You know when the meeting with schedulers will be? 
I apologize, I'm on the road and haven't heard when that will be. 
I'm thinking that I may want to attend. 
Thanks. 
Best, 
Jeff 
Thanks for the info - a few people from our shop will be in attendance./ 
If you haven't heard, SoCal's announced their abandoning windows for OFOs. 
They're holding "workshops" on how it will all work soon. 
I'll get you the announcement. 
Best, 
Jeff 
Probing the 'palace coup' 
Electricity: A panel focuses on price hikes and the actions of the ISO president. 
September 26, 2001 
By KIMBERLY KINDY 
The Orange County Register 
SACRAMENTO
A state Senate committee is set today to start serving 16 subpoenas on electricity producers and officials who manage California's energy grid to determine whether they acted in concert to manipulate energy prices. 
The investigative committee, headed by state Sen. Joe Dunn, D-Santa Ana, is focusing on a series of events last fall filled with enough Shakespearean plot twists and intrigue that it has earned a name around the Capitol: "the palace coup." 
Lawmakers and consumer groups allege that the events - directed by the man who heads the state's energy grid - fueled the California energy crisis, pushed the state into the power-buying business and helped make billions of dollars for power producers. 
The central question behind the palace coup is whether Terry Winter, the president of the Independent System Operator, acted alone when he took steps to remove key price caps designed to limit the amount power generators could charge. 
Winter defied his own board and Gov. Gray Davis when he filed a 50-page request to remove the caps, records and interviews show. 
"I don't know how these events could have taken place without some concerted effort," said Dunn. 
The subpoenas will force those involved, including Winter, to provide sworn testimony about the events to the committee, and to turn over e-mails, personal calendars and memos. 
Davis spokesman Steve Maviglio said the governor felt "betrayed" by the actions of Winter. 
"The governor believes it was the defining moment, when what was a mounting problem turned into an instant crisis," Maviglio said. 
Winter refused comment, referring all questions to the public relations office. 
ISO spokesman Gregg Fishman said Dunn's committee will find no criminal conduct. 
The decision was made by ISO upper management with one goal in mind: to keep the lights on. 
At the time, generators were refusing to sell power in California because of the price caps. 
"It was an emergency," Fishman said. 
"We had to take action.'' 
What became known as the palace coup began on Oct. 26 when ISO board members voted for severe restrictions on the amount of money electricity producers could charge for power. 
The restrictions would drive prices as low as $65 per megawatt - nearly 12 times below the $750 per megawatt limits of seven months earlier. 
"They (electricity generators) grinned and beared the $750 price cap, but this new plan by ISO was too much," said Dunn, whose committee has been investigating since March. 
"All hell broke loose.'' 
Records show that on Oct. 31, power generators and electricity traders filed letters with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, demanding that the new plan be killed. 
The letters, six in all, were sent within two hours of each other and represented dozens of power generators. 
"If not removed immediately, the (ISO) price cap will sow confusion in the market, threaten reliability and stifle new investment in generating capacity,'' read one letter written by Duke Energy Vice President William Hall III. 
Although there is nothing illegal about the generators acting together to lobby against price caps, Dunn believes the letters and other actions around the same time showed clear coordination among energy officials. 
He said the main aim of the subpoenas will be to determine whether collusion occurred to "fix" prices, which would violate federal trade laws. 
In the Oct. 31 letters, electricity producers told federal officials that if price caps weren't removed it would lead to a collapse of the energy market. 
The generators got their way. 
The next day, the federal commission killed the new pricing plan. 
What was left in place was a $250 price cap established five months earlier. 
Power producers then turned their attention toward killing that cap, saying they couldn't make a profit even under these constraints. 
They began to withhold power from California, and on Dec. 7 the ISO declared its first Stage 3 emergency and braced for blackouts, which were narrowly averted. 
What followed the next day is considered by the governor and Dunn to be the pivotal moment of the energy crisis. 
Winter, who in his position as president and chief operating officer of the ISO, submitted a 50-page emergency request, asking federal officials to abolish the $250 price cap. 
Final authority over lifting the cap rested with the federal government. 
Neither the ISO board, which had established the price cap, nor the governor learned of Winter's actions until the cap had been removed. 
In fact, the attorney who helped draft the emergency request, Charles Robinson, was in a meeting with representatives of the governor and ISO board members just hours before the filing was made. 
He didn't mention anything about it. 
"In retrospect, we should have told them,'' Robinson said. 
With the price caps gone, the generators filed paperwork with federal regulators justifying higher costs. 
"The ISO staff sat in a meeting with the governor's key energy advisers with poker faces, not saying a word about something that was going on at the exact same moment,'' Maviglio said. 
"It was beyond belief that they failed to mention something so significant. 
This action accelerated the utilities' move toward bankruptcy and forced the governor to move the state into the power-buying business." 
Prices for electricity jumped from an average of $249 a megawatt to $700 a megawatt within three days, ISO records show. 
Dunn believes the resulting overcharges for electricity exceeded $30 billion. 
Robinson said the filing - granted two hours after the request - helped rather than hurt Californians. 
Prices, he said, did not spike as a result. 
Instead they followed the skyrocketing price of natural gas - which is used to run power plants to generate electricity. 
Robinson said the emergency order allowed the ISO to secure refunds should overcharges for electricity be proven to federal officials. 
"We believe the action we took addressed a severe concern,'' Robinson said. 
"In our view, we did not believe we changed or made worse the financial situation. 
We felt we made it better because it introduced a process for review and refund." 
Jan Smutney-Jones, who was the ISO board chairman at the time and executive director of a group that represents power generators, said Winter did not consult him about eliminating the price cap. 
Smutney-Jones also said he was unaware of anyone in the power-generating community being consulted. 
"Terry did this by himself,'' said Smutney-Jones, executive director of the Independent Energy Producers. 
"He did what he thought had to be done at the time to keep the power flowing." 
The ISO board called an emergency meeting the next week demanding Winter explain his actions. 
Some board members pushed to have Winter removed, but there were concerns such action would lead to more chaos, the governor's spokesman Maviglio said. 
James J. Hoecker, the former Federal Energy Regulatory Commission chairman, defended making the December decision and also defended Winter. 
"They filed an emergency motion, and we were not about to let California go dark,'' Hoecker said. 
"They (ISO management) did what any independent system operator would do." 
What Dunn's committee hopes to learn is why all these events transpired. 
He believes memos and e-mails around the time of Winter's Dec. 8 actions should provide vital clues. 
"We don't know why he did what he did, but we are eager to find out," Dunn said. 
"Terry said he made that filing in the interest of Californians, but I find that argument has no basis in fact.'' 
We should resurrect Mike Smith's note and get him on the call in the attempt to avoid recreating the wheel on this one. 
I can dig it up if you'd like. 
Sue and Jeff -- 
I am having a meeting with Vicki and Janet Dietrich on Thursday to discuss our view on the ability to extend our current contracts in CA (for customers already on DA). 
Can we discuss this today or soon thereafter. 
My take is that the UDCs will be indifferent to this (maybe?) and our #1 priority is to work to get the PG&E model adopted across the state. 
Any news on how SCE and SDG&E will move forward? 
Thanks. 
Sounds good. 
I suggest a "blind draw" on the teams, best ball not scramble on the golf, and as for the wager, no emails from the losing team for one week! 
Is there any question? 
I'll leave to Steve to structure the deal. 
As I recall, Montavano, Shapiro and I usually make up one team, but I'm willing to switch around a bit. 
Best, 
Jeff 
Are you playing golf? 
And if yes, what's the game and wager??? 
Jim 
"Neal S. Manne" <NMANNE@SusmanGodfrey.com> 
11/28/2000 06:16 PM 
It's a two way street, of course. 
Have they expressed any interest in negotiating? 
There is nothing wrong with a REAL negotiation, but nothing particularly helpful about generating one that s just for show. 
Particularly in the absence of any entreaty from them. 
Where is the "simple" explanation of the transportation piece? 
As I have told RNR, I think we should advise Duke in writing that its IP is not in conformity with the contract, sinceit is in the alternative, and that our IP is hence the only one that will be before the arbitrators (since Duke clearly cannot change it's ineffective IP at this stage, having already seen ours). 
Accordingly, the only issue left for arbitration is whether our IP (the only one and therefore the one they have to choose) is or is not an economic hardship under the contract. 
What say ye? 
none 
Susan Rance@ENRON 
11/28/2000 03:58 PM 
By Friday December 1st, could you please tell me the percentages/amount of time you spent on East Coast Power during the months of October and November. 
In addition, could you look over the list below to see if there are any additional employees in your group that spent time on ECP, so we can ensure we bill all of our used resources to ECP. 
Thanks for you cooperation. 
***Mary Perkins - Could you forward the number of transactions and accounts. 
***Jason Chumley - Could you forward the number of contractor hours and help/remote support hours. 
HR - Veronica Parra, Nedre Strambler, Fran Mayes, Felicia Solis 
Legal - Bob Carter, Travis McCullough, Lisa Mellencamp, Shelia Tweed, Richard Sanders, Michelle Cash 
Corporate Finance- Joe Deffner, Brain Kerrigan, Lewis Worthy, Mary Perkins 
IT- Jason Chumley 
Structuring/Technology - Brad Alford, Chris Coffman, Bill Keeney 
Insurance- David Marshall 
Susan 
Looks good 
Steve Van Hooser 
11/28/2000 11:34 AM 
Richard, 
How does this look? 
If I can get a few minutes with Mark H. today, I'm going to propose that I speak to Stan Klimberg about getting this signed before Thursday's meeting with LIPA. 
Thanks for your help this morning. 
Steve 
In the three years I have been here, I am unaware of an ENA/ECT bad faith claim against any insurance company. 
Anyone else? 
If so, please contact Michelle. 
Michelle Blaine@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
11/28/2000 07:35 PM 
Justin, I have no knowledge of any bad faith actins Enron has pending inTexas but I will call Richard Sanders who manages domestic litgation here. 
I've read the materials you sent and agree we need to address these allegations appropriately. 
Richard do you have any bad faith litigation pending against any insurers in Texas or are you aware of any Enron has filed?? 
We sued Houston Casualty last year but I don't recall making any bad faith claims. 
It settled anyway, a long time ago. 
mb 
Michelle, 
Did you get my fax on Friday? 
I guess the questions on which I should like your steer are: (a) Do you have a particular sensitivity about the reference to bad faith proceedings made by United India? 
(b) Is it right that Enron has 3 sets of bad faith proceedings in Texas? 
(c) Are you happy with the draft letter to Beachcrofts I sent you? 
Please give me a call if you would like to discuss. 
Justin 
Not when I was there, but I wasn't there the whole time. 
Michelle and Ken, 
were you able to discuss the "bad faith" proceedings issue yesterday? 
If you got the chance today, I should be really grateful if one of you could give me a call to discuss this issue; I think we should set out DPC's position clearly on this in correspondence without too much delay. 
Justin 
____________________________________________________________ 
This message is confidential. 
It may also be privileged or otherwise protected by work product immunity or other legal rules. 
If you have received it by mistake please let us know by reply and then delete it from your system; you should not copy the message or disclose its contents to anyone. 
____________________________________________________________ 
Address this to Robin Gibbs for my signature. 
Thanks. 
Russell Montgomery@ENRON 
11/28/2000 08:22 AM 
Richard- 
Per my voice mail, here is the letter. 
As I mentioned, please let me know when it is ready, and I will send someone to pick it up. 
Thank you for your help. 
Russ 3-5297 
brianp@aiglincoln.com 
Rob Jacobs <rsjacobs@Encoreacq.com> 
11/28/2000 11:25 AM 
Hi Rich, 
Have you heard if the Kinga has had little Brian II yet? 
Also, remind me of Patterson's email, so I can harass him directly. 
Hope your pre Chanukah planning is going well. 
Rob 
- C.DTF 
As you can tell from the time of my e-mail, I am getting crushed. 
Please ask her to be the contact person. 
Robert C Williams@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
11/28/2000 09:46 AM 
Now that Michelle is in your fold, do you want to reconsider her being the contact person with AAA on this? 
I am sending you a letter from their atty. 
Call me to discuss. 
Cheryl Marshall 
11/27/2000 10:25 AM 
As of today, we have not received payment in full as requested in Richard Sanders' letter dated November 16, 2000. 
We did receive a payment for $3,202.61 on 11-20-2000. 
Richard - please let me know what we need to do next to file suit. 
Nuria_R_Ibarra@calpx.com on 04/28/2000 11:15:11 AM 
The attached letter is being sent to you from Patricia Gillman. 
(See attached file: Sanders Letter 4_28_00.doc) 
- Sanders Letter 4_28_00.doc 
Richard B Sanders 
11/28/2000 09:56 PM 
I am sending you a letter from their atty. 
Call me to discuss. 
Cheryl Marshall 
11/27/2000 10:25 AM 
As of today, we have not received payment in full as requested in Richard Sanders' letter dated November 16, 2000. 
We did receive a payment for $3,202.61 on 11-20-2000. 
Richard - please let me know what we need to do next to file suit. 
Has Liz finished with gathering the documents? 
melanie.gray@weil.com 
11/13/2000 03:43 PM 
Here are the revised dates for the response/reply/and hearing dates for Enron's motion to compel. 
As you may recall, they say they want a deposition on the parties' intention. 
We should be expecting a deposition notice soon if they are going to follow through on their threat. 
I passed along to Liz Austin your request regarding pleadings A&K has filed setting forth the Trustee's position in connection with the enforcement/nonenforcement of the power contracts and what remedies the Trustee is seeking. 
As you see below, she is pulling those together. 
Call to discuss the response to the Trustee's settlement offer. 
Thanks. 
Hi--
Talked to Craig and the Court today. 
The motion to compel is now scheduled for Dec. 12 at 2p.m. 
The trustee's oppositon papers are now due Nov 27 and Enron reply is due Dec 1. 
I have my paralegal gathering the pleadings Enron requested. 
That is all for now.
--Liz 
**********NOTE********** 
The information contained in this email message is intended only for use of the individual or entity named above. 
If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, or the employee or agent responsible to deliver it to the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. 
If you have received this communication in error, please immediately notify us by telephone (713-546-5000), and destroy the original message. 
Thank you. 
"Gerry Strathmann" <gstrathmann@mediaone.net> 
11/08/2000 02:19 PM 
Dear Mr. Sanders - 
? 
While I left a you a phone message with some information about our project, I thought I could give you some additional details by e-mail as well... 
? 
We are still very interested in having Enron support our eCommerce Dispute Management Protocol.? 
We have had enthusiastic responses from companies such as AT&T, Duke Energy, Pitney Bowes and DaimlerChrysler, and I would be pleased to answer any questions you may have about this focal point for our educational efforts.? 
The real purpose of my call, however, is related to the services we will provide to support the aspirational statements of the Protocol. 
I am a member of the design group that has been developing the American Arbitration Association's dispute management systems and services for eCommerce B2B transactions.? 
At this time we are putting together small working groups to validate some of our assumptions and refine our initial service offerings. 
Initially our design group, along with perhaps one of our technology consultants, would like to meet with a group of Enron people for half a day.? 
Ideally this group would consist of four to six people from finance, legal, and operations so that we get good cross-functional feedback about our services.? 
Before the meeting we would provide you with a brief description of our proposed service offerings and a list of points for discussion at the meeting. 
The real focus of the meeting will be on how we should build these services to meet the needs of businesses operating in B2B marketplaces.? 
We are very concerned with providing services that are relevant to that environment. 
We would like to meet between November 14 and?December 1?since construction of our services is already underway.? 
Please let me know what is possible, and feel free to give me a call if you have any questions (978-376-9004). 
? 
Thanks. 
-> Gerry 
Gerry Strathmann eCommerce Group American Arbitration Association (978) 376-9004 303-294-4499 
"Neal S. Manne" <NMANNE@SusmanGodfrey.com> 
11/29/2000 09:52 AM 
Thanks, Richard. 
Do you have a tel # for Mike? 
Thanks. 
Mark Palmer@ENRON 
11/29/2000 10:45 AM 
I'll send a copy of the suit filed against the generators as soon as I get it. 
Mark 
"Leopold, Jason" <Jason.Leopold@dowjones.com> 
11/29/2000 10:40 AM 
Hello Energyphiles: 
OK, perhaps it was inevitable. 
But it is now official. 
A team of San Diego's best anti-trust and class action attorneys has been assembled to take on the electric generators and marketers in California state court in an effort to return the electricity overcharges that have battered San Diego and the rest of California this year. 
A press conference will be held to discuss the consumer class action lawsuit to be filed today. 
WHEN: 11am - noon 
WHERE: 550 West C St. (b/t Columbia & India) Suite 1810 Law Offices of Levine, Steinberg, Miller & Huver 619-231-9449 
WHAT: Copies of the filed complaint will be made available at that time. 
UCAN's executive director and the attorney team will be available to answer questions about the complaint. 
We are hopeful that we can post the complaint to the UCAN web site later today. 
*********************************** 
"Time is the best teacher, except for the fact that it kills off its best students" 
Michael Shames Executive Director Utility Consumers' Action Network 1717 Kettner Blvd. Suite 105 San Diego, CA 92101 619-696-6966 mshames@ucan.org 
